All right.
So in our previous class we have seen how we can set up the environment, like how we can install postman.
And also we have seen the basic request like how we can get request post request, put request and delete
request and so on.
And today we will see how we can create our own APIs for testing purpose.
Okay.
So how we can create our own APIs.
And after that we will try to understand what is a JSON and JSON path which is very, very important,
especially when you do validations on response.
We need to understand what is JSON, what is a JSON structure and so on, how to write a JSON and how
we can write the JSON path.
So these things are very important.
So before validating the response okay, so for a few demos for few concepts we are going to use our
own APIs which I am going to create.
And I'll show you.
You guys also can create your own APIs and accordingly you can practice them.
And also we will try to say we will try to use some real time APIs.
After understanding the responses, validations and everything, we will try to work with the real time
APIs.
Okay, so first let us start with how we can create our own APIs.
So to create our own APIs there are mainly three prerequisites we need to achieve.
So first thing we need to install Node.js.
Second thing npm which is basically node package manager.
And once we install node.js by default you will get npm.
And after that we need to install a special package called JSON server, which is very, very important
through which we can create our own APIs.
Okay.
These are the three prerequisites.
Node.js we have to install and npm package you will get once you install Node.js.
And then JSON server is another package which we have to install through npm okay.
So especially when you work with any angular based applications.
Node.js is a very important for for, especially for Java based project.
We use Maven, right?
Similarly, uh, Node.js is also a type of a maven project.
So Node.js is a kind of a platform.
And on top it provides something called npm.
So through npm we can install different type of packages.
So these are the three things which we need to have to create our own APIs okay.
Not complex APIs.
Very simple APIs we can create.
And uh by using JSON file.
Also we required I'll show you how to have how to create a JSON file and so on.
So these are three prerequisites.
We need to have Node.js.
We have to install.
And by default you will get 10 p.m. from Node.js and then JSON server we need to install.
I'll show you step by step process.
And you guys can try this after the session.
It is very simple and easy step by step process and the Mac users also follow the same process.
Okay, there is no difference.
So first thing, we need to download and install Node.js software, which is mandatorily required to
create our own APIs.
If you don't want to create your own APIs.
These things are not required.
So these things are required to create our own APIs.
User defined APIs, right?
If you want to use some existing APIs which are available in internet so you don't need to install them.
Okay.
So this is only for creating the APIs.
All right.
So first see how we can download Node.js.
And we will try to install Node.js.
After that we will see other components.
So this is the download link.
And once you open this link you will navigate to the Node.js official website.
And you can see the download button here.
So you can see the tab called download.
And if I just go to this download tab you can see multiple tabs here.
Package manager rebuilt installer rebuild binary source code.
There are multiple things you can see here.
So you need to go to prebuilt installer.
So this is a tab.
We have to click inside this.
And here you can see there are different versions of NodeJS is available.
So you can take whichever.
Mostly we will take LTS long term support or you can take current version 23 .5.0 is also fine.
You can take always latest version.
And then here you can select the platform.
So on Windows or Mac or Linux on which platform you are going to download just select the platform.
So currently I'm selecting windows and then which chipset 64 bit 86 and ARM 64 and Mac users select
this ARM 64 okay.
If you are selecting Mac here I can say Mac OS, then ARM 64 is selected.
So this is the combination you have to select for Mac users.
And for windows users directly go to windows and 64 bit you have to take.
And once you select this combination and then click on Download node JS and currently showing 22 .4.0
which is LTS.
Long term support is there.
So you can just download this.
So once you click on it, it will download the installer.
I will show you how it looks like I have already downloaded.
So this is my installer.
You can see that okay let me delete this file.
So note version 22 .1.2. x.
And this is dot MSE file okay Microsoft Installer file.
So you will get this installer file.
So once you get this installer file you can easily install Node.js.
Just double click on it.
So once you double click on it it will start opening the windows.
And just you need to click on next next next.
And then Node.js will be successfully installed.
So I already installed my Node.js.
I have captured all the screenshots.
I will share them and you can just go to the same thing.
So here as soon as you downloaded this executable file MSI file, then you can just click on it.
It will go to the next screen like this.
It will show you Welcome Wizard and just click on the next.
You need to select any options.
Simply click on next next next.
So here just click on the next button and then it will go to another screen.
acceptance licence and agreement.
And again click on the next button.
And here it will show you the default location where exactly the Node.js got installed.
By default it will go to program files.
It will create a new folder called Node.js.
And inside this the Node.js will be installed.
And if you want to install some other location, you can change the location, but let it be the default
location and then click on the next button.
And after that it will show you different options here.
And if I look at these options one of the option is npm.
Means what package manager.
Node package manager.
So this is a main component which we required further.
And that is also have listed at the beginning as a prerequisite.
We need npm right.
So if you install node.js by default you will get npm.
So you don't need to install separately.
And that you can see here in this list.
NPM package manager node package manager.
Basically it's a full form and once you selected by default it is selected all the options.
You don't need to do anything here.
Just click on the next button just and then it will go to another screen.
And here you need to select anything.
Just click on the next button and again and the final screen you will see the install button here.
So once you click on this install it will start installing your Node.js.
So once it is done process.
And finally you will get a completed Node.js setup wizard and to simply say finish.
So this is simple installation of Node.js software.
So once you have installed this Node.js software you need to cross check the environment variable path
is got created or not.
So every software whenever you install.
And we need to set a path environment variable.
So where we can set that you can just go here and right click on this PC go to properties.
Under properties go to Advanced System Settings.
So normally we configure Java path Maven path and everything right in the same location.
Just go to environment variables.
And here under System variables select the path variable.
Click on edit.
Now here you can see program files NodeJS.
This path is already created.
So we no need to add any path here actually.
So the NodeJS itself will automatically add these two paths.
NodeJS.
Under NodeJS there is another folder called node modules.
This is also required.
Sometimes it will add only one one path program files on NodeJS.
But you need to additionally add this also same nodejs path slash node modules.
So make sure these two paths are configured under environment variables.
So by default these two things will be added.
If you look at after installation of NodeJS.
If not you have to add them manually okay.
Go to the location of Node.js, copy this path and paste it here.
So once you copied these two parts and just simply close everything.
So this is how we need to set path of Node.js software.
So I have given all the screens step by step and even setting the environment variables.
Also, I have given the path go to System Properties.
Select the path variable.
Make sure these two paths are successfully added into the environment variable section.
Okay, this is how we need to set up.
So in the Mac users you don't need to do all the environment setup.
Just you need to go to installer.
Click on installer and installation is done.
That is enough.
So the path will automatically set by the installer.
You don't need to set any path even in the Mac also.
Okay, fine.
So once you have successfully installed the Node.js, then how we can verify whether the Node.js is
successfully installed or not.
So for that we need to first go to the command prompt.
So if you are working on Mac you need to open the terminal.
Or if you are windows you need to open the command prompt like this.
So in the command prompt you can type a command called node.
Hyphen.
Hyphen.
Version.
Node hyphen hyphen version.
So this will actually gives you which version of Node.js you have successfully installed and configured.
If you have not set path properly, you will not get the version.
So anyway, the path is automatically set.
So you will get this option.
Okay.
So this is the command you have to check.
So this is you are getting version is nothing but what you have successfully installed Node.js.
Also you are successfully configured Node.js software okay Mac users you can open the terminal.
In the terminal you can execute this command.
So this is how we can simply install Node.js software.
This is the first prerequisite okay that the first one is achieved.
Now as I said npm by default you will get along with the Node.js.
So we need to also verify the npm version.
So how we can verify npm version on the same command prompt you can simply say npm hyphen hyphen version
because npm.
By default you will get along with the node.js.
Simply execute this command.
It will show you npm version.
Also, this is the version which is currently available which comes along with the node.js.
You no need to install npm separately, so you have to make sure node is successfully installed.
And along with that npm should automatically comes.
So you need to verify both the versions are correctly displayed or not.
So this is the first thing we need to verify okay.
So with this we have achieved two requirements.
Node.js we have successfully installed.
And by default you got npm from the Node.js.
Now what is the third thing we need to install JSON server component.
So we can install JSON server only through npm.
So to do this we need to execute one more command.
So these are the two commands I've just shown you.
Node hyphen hyphen version npm hyphen an iPhone version.
Now the third thing is we need to install JSON server.
So how we can install using npm command.
NPM install hyphen g JSON server is a keyword.
So if I execute this command on the same command prompt, it will install JSON server and later this
component is required to create our own API's to run our own APIs on your local systems.
So let us try to install JSON server so I can simply go and execute this command npm install hyphen
g JSON hyphen server.
Okay, this is the same command.
All are lowercase characters.
So once we executed this command, it will start installing JSON server and you will able to see these
commands these messages it will add some packages.
This number will vary version to version number.
So don't expect every time you will have only 45 packages and it will give you some kind of a notifications
here.
Simply you can ignore these notifications.
Okay so this command will just install JSON server.
So I already executed this command once.
So I cannot execute the same command once again.
So I'm just capture the screenshot here.
Once you executed this command you will see these kind of notifications.
Okay so with this we have achieved three prerequisites.
We have successfully installed Node.js.
Also npm comes along with the Node.js.
We have verified the versions also.
And finally we have installed JSON server using the command npm install g JSON hyphen server.
So when I execute this command it will install JSON server.
So these are the three prerequisites we need to first achieve to create our own APIs now.
So with this how we can create our own APIs.
So far everything is clear.
Can you guys can do it?
Can you guys do it?
Three steps how to install Node.js, how to get npm and how to install JSON server.
Simple.
Only three components are required.
This is only one time installation, one time setup.
So in future you can create any number of APIs your own APIs okay.
All right.
So once you have achieved these three prerequisites now we will see how we can create our own APIs.
So to create our own APIs we need to have some data in JSON format.
It can be any type of data.
So we need to have the data in the JSON file.
So here if I go back and see in the C drive I maintain some of the JSON files.
That is again prerequisite if I go back to automation files.
So I have some list of JSON files.
You can see JSON data dot JSON store, dot JSON students dot JSON.
So I have different JSON files are available here.
So if I open this students dot JSON, I'm opening here and just opening in the notepad plus plus.
And you can see the some code content is there.
So this is actually data API's data.
But in the real time actually we don't store this data in the file format.
The data will come from the database.
But this is just dummy APIs we are creating.
So we will maintain the data in the JSON format.
So when I send API request this is the same data we will get as part of response.
So this is the data which we have in the JSON format actually.
So what is exactly this data.
This is students data students.
And this is a data of the first student second student and third student.
Every student is having some ID name location, phone number and what are the courses they have enrolled.
So this current data which we have.
So later we will try to understand the JSON data, what exactly it is, how we can understand JSON path
and all these things.
We will try to understand slowly, but we need to maintain one JSON file like this.
Okay.
So the first thing.
So we have already done the prerequisites and the JSON file is already exist.
So now we need to create our own API okay.
Now we need to create our own API.
So now let us see how we can create our own API.
So with this JSON file.
So to create our own API.
So wherever you place this JSON file you need to just go to that location.
I'm just going to another cmd I'm opening here and the previous command prompt.
If you want you can close it because we already installed Node.js, verified the version of npm.
We have already installed JSON server, so this is not needed.
Now if I go back and go to the location where exactly you placed your JSON file, and here we need to
run one command to create our own APIs.
So students dot JSON which is data is already available.
So now we need to run this JSON file which will automatically create an API.
So one single command we have to execute.
Simple very very simple.
So we have created student dot JSON file with the following data.
And now we need to execute one single command JSON hyphen server.
In the third prerequisite we have already installed JSON server, right?
If you already remember JSON server we already installed.
So with that component only we have to create our own APIs.
Now if I scroll down here, I have given one command JSON hyphen server hyphen hyphen watch.
So this parameter is optional and the students dot JSON.
So whatever file we have we need to specify that file.
So this particular command will start JSON server and create an API which we can access locally.
So here I have run the command JSON hyphen server hyphen hyphen watch.
So what is hyphen hyphen watch will do when I add this parameter.
Here you can see the index static files end points.
It will give you all the URLs here.
If I don't specify this it will not show you URLs.
It will run the API.
It will create it, but it will not show you the URLs.
If you want to see the URLs you can put this hyphen.
Hyphen watch okay.
So this command we have to run every time whenever you want to launch your API.
And if you close this command prompt or if you exit from this command prompt, your API will stop running.
Okay.
So we should not close this window once you start your API.
So I'll show you how to execute this command.
So we already opened the command prompt like this.
So here all my JSON files are exist.
When I say dir you can see students dot JSON file is already existed.
So now I'm running this command JSON hyphen server hyphen hyphen watch and which file we are going to
execute students dot JSON.
And when you run this command, now you can see it is given end point.
So this is the actual URL which we need to access.
Okay.
Now if I open this you can just right click on this.
It will open another.
Or you can simply control click on this link.
So now we can see the URL is got open.
Now this is the data.
We got it.
So along with this URL we can also create a new student.
Here we can update existing student data.
We can delete the existing student.
So all these actions we can do by passing different kind of URLs.
But this is the base URL.
So which will retrieve the data of all the students which are available in the API.
So this is a local API.
Okay.
So similarly if you have a JSON file we can create that kind of API.
So currently we have a students dot JSON.
I'm able to create a student API.
Similarly if you have some other data let's say here I have something store.
Dot JSON if I open this.
This particular JSON file contains a store data.
Means what?
There is a book contains different data like other category, price and title of the books.
There are multiple books are there.
So you can also run the JSON command for this JSON file and it will also create another API.
At that time you can create only one API.
Okay, because the JSON server will try to use same port number localhost, so it cannot be duplicate.
So once you started running the students parallelly, you cannot start store dot JSON API at that time.
Only one is work, one works at a time.
Okay, so this is the actual end point.
So by using this end point we can do get request, put request delete request and post request everything
we can do.
Okay.
So we need we should not close this window.
We should just minimize this window.
Right.
So this is how we can create our own API.
So I have given all the steps here, and this is a URL which we need to access once you start running
your JSON file through JSON server command.
So any API, if you have simple one JSON file, you can run the JSON file as an API using JSON server
so that you can use for testing so that JSON you can use it for testing.
Okay.
So I'll share this document.
Very simple step.
You guys can do step by step later and get ready with that.
So now I'm just closing this or I can just minimize it for now.
So for everybody is clear how we can create our own API dummy API.
So now I'm going to show you how we can send the request in our postman tool.
So whatever API we just created students API, I'm going to create a different type of request.
And I'm going to show you in the postman tool how we can test them in the postman tool.
Okay, so I have created some of the test on the same student API.
I'll show you.
Let me open my Excel file.
Yes.
So look at this.
So this is my Excel file, which contains a different type of request which are related to student API.
So if I go back to the first one, get the single student data.
So I may have multiple students in my API.
So when I send this URL so you can see students slash one what kind of a parameter it is.
Query parameter or path parameter.
So localhost colon 3000 till here this is just a URL domain.
Students slash one.
What is one here?
One is basically an ID of the student.
Okay students slash one.
So this will return the details of one single student.
So when I send the get request there is no authentication required.
There is no payload required.
But payload response will be like this.
So because we are requesting the first student details it will return the only details of the first
student and the status code will be 200.
Similarly, if you want to get all the students so then you can send another request.
This is another request.
Get all the students data.
And here we just say only students.
We should not specify specific ID here.
And again this is the Get request.
And here you can see all the students information as a response.
This is the response payload.
Again status code is 200.
And then the third request create a new student.
So what kind of request it is.
Post request.
So currently in my JSON file I have only three records.
If you want to create a new record through API, you have to send this URL along with the Post request.
Okay.
And do we need to post any payload request payload?
Yes, because we are going to create a new record through API.
So we need to pass the data.
So this is the data which we need to pass.
And this is the record in the JSON format.
So that will go and create a new record.
And it will return the same record.
Whatever the new record which we created that will return the same record.
By attaching the ID the ID will be created.
So currently three records are there.
The new ID will be created, which is four and two zero.
One is a status code.
And suppose I want to update the existing student data.
So whatever the new student we created here, I just pass the ID which is four and put request I'm sending.
And whatever the data we want to update that we can specify in this request payload.
And this is the response same ID but the data will be changed.
And finally if you want to delete the student you can just again pass the same ID, send the delete
request and everything will be deleted.
Finally, you can see empty curly braces.
200 is a status code.
Okay, so this is how we can create the tests based upon the API.
Okay.
So now let us see how we can send this request in our postman tool.
So until unless we understood the JSON format we cannot add validation points.
Okay.
So we cannot add validation points.
So in this when you create a new record the time stamp is not added.
Okay.
Time stamp is not added because this API is not designed like that.
So every API cannot add time stamp.
That depends on how the developers are designed.
The API.
Okay.
Currently this API is not supporting any time stamp, but still we can validate the response and status
code data.
Okay.
How much response time we got?
Cookies headers.
There are many things we can validate on this APIs.
All right.
Now let us go to postman and we will try to send this request.
And after that we will try to understand the JSON format.
So open the postman tool.
Now in the postman.
If I look at this, I will create a new collection for today.
So this collection is already created yesterday.
I'm just going to create a new collection.
How to create a new.
How to create a new collection.
Click on this plus button.
It will ask you create a blank collection.
I'm just selecting blank Collection and by default it is giving some name called New Collection.
So what I'll do is I'll say data underscore students API.
I say students API.
So this is the new collection I created.
So under this I'm going to add multiple request.
So these are the different request get request.
There are two get request one post request put and delete request totally five different type of request
I'm going to send.
Currently my API is running.
I have not closed my windows.
You should not close this.
If I close this window your API will stop running so we need to just minimize it.
Okay.
Now let us see one by one.
So let's go to postman.
Now I'm adding first request which will return a single student data.
So add request basically is a get request.
Okay.
Now here I'm just specifying, uh, the name of the request.
What's the name of the request?
Get single student or get single student.
Okay.
So I'm just adding some name called get a single student.
Now here we need to pass the URL.
So go here.
And this is the URL which we are going to send it.
So in the last class I already told you how to get the requirements.
So developers will create the requirement to design swagger documents.
And once you receive that you will understand the URLs, what URLs we need to run, what type of request,
how, what type of data.
We have to pass everything you will know based on the swagger document.
So in the coming sessions I will show you the entire testing process.
But for now, just focus on the execution part.
Okay.
So this is the request get request.
And as soon as I have added this URL you can see what is the parameter I'm passing here.
Path parameter slash one is the path parameter.
Do we have any query parameters here.
No right.
Simply click on send button.
Just observe.
See we got the data here.
So from where we are getting this data from our JSON file only.
So let me open my JSON file student dot JSON and look at the first record what it is there so you can
see John India, Java, selenium are the courses.
This is the data.
Same data is written in the postman.
You can see this right.
Same data is got it.
Why.
Because we specified the id.
So for example, let's say two here.
Now send it.
Now we got that second record.
Basically this request we are sending to get the data of the single student.
So when I send this you got the response.
So this is one type of request.
So later I will show you how we can add validations.
Because before adding the validations we need to understand the structure of the JSON.
So there are a lot of things we need to validate in the response.
We will discuss that as a separate part validation part.
But for now just focus more on different type of request what we are going to do.
So this is one request I created.
So this is basically a Get request which will return the details of the particular student.
And you don't need to save it by default.
Auto save we have already enabled.
So by default it will save.
So now I'm closing this okay I'm just closing this.
So now I will create another request.
So what is the status code you have got.
You got it here.
Status code 200 is okay.
This is the same status code we are expecting.
Right.
Because request is successful.
We got the 200 is a okay.
And the response is again in the JSON format.
And do we need to pass any, uh, request body here.
No because it is a simple Get request.
So we no need to send any request body.
Done.
So now I'm going to create another request.
So this time I want to retrieve the data of all the students.
So what is the URL this time we need to use this URL localhost 3000 and students.
So this URL when I send get request it will return all the students data.
Now go back to postman and try to create another request.
So select the collection.
Click on the three dots here.
It will show you add request.
And this is this time I want to extract multiple students.
All students.
So I'm sending get all students and here I'm pasting the URL.
So localhost 3000 slash student.
So this is also path parameter when I send this request.
So now you can see this time you got the details of all three students.
So this is our first student data second student and then third student.
Currently only three records are there.
123 are the IDs of the records.
So now I'm going to create a new record.
I don't want to add a new record in JSON file directly.
I want to create a new record through API request.
So let us see how it will happen.
So currently how many records are there in my JSON file?
Only three records.
Now before adding new record, don't open the file.
Just let's close the file okay?
Because if it is open it cannot be updated.
So I'm just closing the file.
Now I want to create a new record through API post request.
Okay, so for that what I will do, I just close this for now.
I'm going to run another request.
Post request.
So here I'm saying create student.
Create new student.
And what type of request it is.
It is a Post request.
So I'm selecting post here.
And what type of URL we have to send for the post request.
The third request.
This is the one same URL but request type is different, so same URL I'm passing, but request type
is what post.
So this is the request type.
Now do we need to send body because we want to we are creating the new record right.
So we have to send a body.
So go to the body section here go to raw.
And here we need to select the JSON format.
So here we need to add the data of the new student, which we are going to add now.
This is the data I have prepared.
Now I'm passing this data.
So with this data I'm going to create a new records.
How many records are there earlier?
Only three records are there.
And what are those IDs?
123.
There is no fourth record.
So we should not pass IDs here in the data.
We have to just pass only name, location, phone and courses.
Courses is basically an array JSON array.
And in the response we will get an ID.
So once you added this data, once the request is successful, then the ID will automatically added
by the JSON.
So now let me run this request post request.
And with this data I'm adding.
So when I send this request observe see it has got created.
Some ID is also got created.
You can see some ID has got created.
It's not given the number this time it is given some kind of a code.
It's not a number actually It depends how the apps got designed it is depends.
Sometimes you may get the number.
Sometimes you may not get the number.
Instead you will get an ID.
So now if I see this request is created a new record.
Now let us go and see the JSON file.
Previously only three records are there.
Now I'm just opening my students dot JSON file.
And look at this.
The new record is got successfully created.
So previously we have only 123.
So this time it is created a new record.
Right.
So this is how it will create.
Now let me close this now.
So I want to update the existing record.
So how can we update the existing record.
So I don't want to touch this JSON file.
I'll update the record only through postman itself.
But before updating remember this id because only based on the ID we can update the record.
So what is the response?
We got it here after adding the new record if I go back to the Excel.
So this is a response we got.
Okay.
This is the response.
And what is the status code.
If I go back and see status code is created 201 is a status code is created.
Now if you want to update the record.
So what is the key here.
ID based on the id we can modify the name, location, phone number or courses.
Anything we can modify in this by using ID.
So how we can modify this.
If I go back and see the request update student.
So what kind of request we have to send.
Put request.
So in the put request again whatever response we captured here this is the actual data.
Now we want to modify.
So what do you want to modify.
I want to modify the courses.
So I want to modify something.
Let's say previously it was court and the location is.
What.
France.
Now here I want to update.
The location is equal to Germany.
And rest of the data is exactly the same.
The phone number is also 123456.
Now I'm changing the phone number also and courses let it be their same courses.
I'm not changing the courses you want, you can change it.
So what are the things I'm going to change in the previous this is the output.
We got it now what are the changes I want to do?
I want to do location.
I have to change.
Previously it was friends.
Now I'm making it as a Germany previously phone number 123456.
Now I'm adding another phone number and rest of the data is exactly the same.
So now this is a format I'm going to send.
Okay.
So let's go and update the existing record.
So I will open like this I don't want to close.
Let me create another request.
New request.
And what type of request it is.
It is a again put request.
And what is a URL we have to send to update the students on which record we are updating that you need
to pass.
So currently what is an id phi c f e?
Right.
This is an id so that is a id we have to pass in the URL.
Not for if id is for you can pass for.
But this is the ID as of now.
So now we need to copy this URL.
Go back and put here okay.
Now this is a put request because this is a put request.
We need to add body also.
So go to the body raw and go to the JSON.
Same JSON and what type of body we need to add here.
So this is the body we have to anyway ID we are passing along with the URL.
So we need to just add this body here.
And this is our previous request.
So this is the actual output we got previously.
But now we got this output.
But before that if we want to verify really this record is got created or not through API, I want to
verify simply copy this ID go to the first request.
So this will return the student details.
Right.
So instead of one just pass ID whatever the newly ID is got created, simply send and it is returning
the data.
So that means perfectly it is successfully created.
So before updating just cross check whether this record is got successfully created or not.
Perfectly fine.
Now I'm going to send my put request along with this URL.
And this is the ID we are passing and what are the changes we are doing.
Location, phone number I'm changing and rest of the things are exactly the same.
If you want to change other things you can change it.
So now I'm sending the new request.
Now you can see this is the response we got.
So name location has got changed, phone number has got changed.
And ID is also got changed.
Everything has got changed.
So this is how we can update the record.
And if you again go back and see the JSON file.
And previously this is the record we have added.
So now the location has got changed.
Mobile number is got changed.
This is the ID okay.
So this is how we can also update the record through API.
We have done everything.
So now we are not updated this JSON file directly through API.
We are doing it.
So now finally what is the final last request delete request.
So delete a student.
So at the time of deleting the student also we need to pass same URL along with this id we have to pass,
but we no need to pass any request.
Nothing.
Simply we say ID along with the URL.
So same URL just copy here and these ids will be generated randomly.
So sometimes it will give 12345.
Sometimes it will give you some random code.
So this is the ID.
Go back to postman.
Now I'm creating new record.
So new request.
So this is a put request.
I will just try to change the name.
So this is for update student.
Okay.
So now I'm going to create another request which will delete the student record.
Go and create new request.
Add a new request and what type of request it is delete the student.
So I say delete student specific student.
So delete student.
And what type of request it is.
It is a delete request.
Now what is the URL we have to send same URL only the request is different.
Copy this and then post here.
Right.
So previously when I access single student we got the data.
So I will also open this another request.
Okay.
When I send this you got this data.
So currently this record is available.
Now I'm deleting the same record.
So send the delete request.
So now it is got deleted.
So and 200.
Okay we got it.
So this is the response it is giving actually.
But let us see whether this record is exist or not.
For that again I am running the Get request with the same ID.
So when I send this you can see what is the response you got.
Not found four not four not found.
That means the record is already deleted.
The record is already deleted.
But when you send the delete request, what is the status code you got?
200 means what?
The deletion is successful.
Sometimes you will.
You may get the no content.
Also sometimes you get a no content.
Depends on how the API has got designed.
So these are not standard okay.
So when I send a delete request it is successfully deleted.
And what record is got deleted.
Also it is shown clearly here.
But when I send the get request with the same ID it is simply saying not found.
So that record is not exist.
So this is how we can send different type of request for the API.
So now if I open this file again one more time so that record is gone.
So only 1233 records are available.
Okay.
So this is how we can explore.
Or we can create our own API and we can test them in the postman.
So now I can stop this.
So once you control C now it is get stopped.
So once it is got stopped you will not get anything.
So again if I go back and let me send the request I say one here, click on the send button.
So now you can see could not send the request.
We got some connection error.
Connection refused because API is currently not running.
It is down again.
Once you run this command.
What is the command?
This is the command JSON server hyphen hyphen.
Watch students dot are JSON.
So again this will run another one.
Suppose this time I'm providing another JSON file.
Let's say I have another one store dot JSON.
I can send store dot JSON.
So this will create another API.
So again same URL.
It will not change but this path will change.
So I'm clicking on this URL.
Now you can look at this.
So now this API is running.
So again from this book also we can extract the data.
We can delete the data.
We can update the data.
All kinds of HTTP requests we can do on this API.
So dumb APIs.
So only thing is you need to have a JSON file proper data.
We need to maintain the JSON file.
And if you run the JSON file with this command JSON server, your API is up and running with this URL.
And this is only for practicing purpose, but in the real time it won't be like this.
Okay, real time.
The APIs will be installed on the server.
You will able to access those APIs only with the valid URLs, not from the local systems.
Okay.
And there will be a swagger document also available for understanding all the requirements and what
kind of URLs we have to send, what kind of URL we have to send for delete request, port request,
put request, and what kind of response we will get and what kind of status code you will get.
All the information is available in the swagger document.
It it looks like a requirement document when I read the swagger document is kind of a interactive document.
So if you look at the swagger document you will understand each and every thing.
So that is a document normally provided by the developers.
Okay.
So later I will show you how we can create swagger document how we can refer the document and based
on the swagger document how we can create our test cases, API test cases.
We will see that.
Perfect.
So now we have seen how to create our own APIs and how we can create a different type of request for
our local APIs.
So for everybody is clear.
Please confirm in the chat box Everybody's clear so far how to create our own APIs.
Dummy APIs by using JSON server command.
Simple Node.js we have to install npm command will be there and JSON server.
So next time whenever you want to launch API, you no need to do everything again.
Simple one command you need to run.
This is same command, single command you have to run whenever you start your API.
If you close this window, your API will stop running.
Okay, so now we have created a collection and we have created different type of request.
And when you send any request.
So what are the things you can see in the response.
What are the things you have noticed in the response.
So we'll get some response body here okay.
Let me start running this one more time.
We will just notice what are the things we got in the response.
That is the most important.
Sometimes in interview Also, people may ask.
Jason, Sara can directly run this command.
Okay.
What is optional?
Okay.
So we can run this command now.
Student API is up and running.
Go back here and send this command.
Now we got the request response.
Now what are the things you have noticed here, guys, when you send a request, what are the things
we need to focus on?
Validation part.
There are multiple things we need to validate.
Okay.
So first thing the status code is very important.
That's the first thing.
Second thing how much time it is taken to get a response and how much size of data we got in the response.
Right.
Response size and request size.
Request size in the sense when I send some request we are basically sending some data to the server,
right?
How much size of data we are sending to the server?
And response size is nothing but what how much of data written by the server.
So the time is also most important.
So here you can see there are three things.
Status code time in milliseconds.
How much time it is taken, how much size of the data you capture it.
And if you want to save this response, you can save it.
If I click on this save response, the response will be saved okay.
The response is also will be saved under the request if you want in future.
But every time dynamically we will get the response from the server so we don't save it normally.
But if you still want to save, you can simply save it.
So these are the few options are available.
So status code time in milliseconds.
Size of the data request data and response data.
So these three things are directly visible here.
We can directly test them manually and by adding validation points.
Also we have to test them.
So later I will show you.
But apart from these three what else we need to test here when I send any request Sometimes you will
see the cookies part, so cookies also will be displayed.
But currently these APIs are running locally without internet, without web.
So cookies are not generated.
But if you are really sending the request through internet through web, definitely the cookies will
be generated.
So we need to also verify the cookies are properly creating by API or not.
Next thing is headers part.
So the headers also very important.
So what type of content we are sending as part of request.
What kind of content we are getting as part of request response.
What type of content means what?
Whether it's a JSON format, HTML, XML, which format that we need to validate and date.
Also, we need to validate and how much time it is allowed.
Timeout.
Current length.
Content length.
So these are all part of headers.
And the headers will be sent along with the request.
Also the headers will come from the server along with the response.
So headers will be part of both the request and the response.
Okay so next one.
Headers cookies headers and body.
Anyway we have to validate this JSON format.
This is most important.
We need to validate the data also.
Exactly when I send first request I'm getting the name John or not I'm getting the location.
India not phone number is correct or not.
According to my requirement.
The phone number is this one or not.
So we need to validate the data also.
But every time don't think the JSON response will be this much simple.
Most of the times it will be more complex.
There is a huge content will be written by the response by the server.
So we need to validate the response properly.
For that we need to learn JSON and JSON path, which is very, very important.
That will play very important role.
Okay, in web testing, whenever you are locating some web elements we use something called XPath,
right.
So what is the use of XPath to locate the web element.
Similarly here to locate the data, whatever is there in the JSON format, we use a JSON path.
So for example, we have an XML path which is also called as a XPath.
But for JSON we have a JSON path.
JSON is nothing but a JavaScript object notation.
Okay, so just like a this is a exactly competitive like XML is exactly opposite of JSON.
XML is one type of format.
JSON is another type of format.
HTML is another type of format.
CSV is another type of format.
Text is another type of format.
So Rest API supports all these formats.
So developer is having that kind of a flexibility.
Suppose you want to support JSON.
He can develop all the APIs which will support JSON.
Suppose if you want to develop APIs which will support HTML, he can do that.
Suppose you want to develop APIs which will support CSV.
He can do that.
So for development point of view he is having more flexibility.
But when I go with the Soap type of API that will support only XML, it doesn't support anything and
JSON is more lightweight content when you compare with the XML.
So that is the reason if you would.
If your data is in JSON format, the transportation will be very faster, performance will be very fast.
So that's the reason most of the times rest API is use JSON format.
Okay.
And sometimes you can see HTML format also.
And such type of APIs also will be there.
Sometimes I will also show you that later.
But for now let us focus more on JSON.
So if you want to validate the data in the JSON response you need to first understand what exactly it
is.
What is JSON object?
What is JSON array?
What is a key?
What is a pair?
What is a key and what is a value?
So what are the different types are there?
What are the different data types are there in the JSON.
You need to understand that first, and then only we can do validate the response body.
Okay.
So now let us see.
Let us try to understand something about JSON.
So the validation parts we will see in the next class.
But before adding validation parts where we will add validation parts.
So here there is one tab called scripts here.
So here we need to add validation parts.
Once you added validation point here once a successful response is done.
So under this test results you can see whether the request is passed or not or the scripts.
The validation scripts are passed or not.
So that information will be shown inside the test results.
But as of now, we have not added any validations for this request.
So we are not getting any test results here.
But if you add any validation point here, we will get the test results.
So for what are the different type of validations.
Normally we do for APIs we will validate the response, body status, code time and everything and data
size, headers, cookies.
Okay, all these things we will validate.
So to validate these things we need to add JavaScript.
And inside the script folder script tab.
So here we need to add okay.
So in the next session I will let you know how to add different type of validation points which will
validate all these things status code time size and body also especially body which is very very important
okay.
But before that we need to understand the JSON.
So let's move and try to understand JSON.
I'll minimize this postman.
Now let me share some other document.
JSON.
So what is JSON.
First of all Jason is what is the full form of Jason.
So an interview perspective also, which is very important.
Listen carefully.
JavaScript Object Notation JSON is full form.
Is what JavaScript object notation.
So what is a JSON?
Why why why we need to use JSON basically, especially for storing the data or exchanging the data between
client and server.
You are sending some request to the server and you will get some response.
So whenever you send the request actually in which format data is transporting in JSON format and in
which format, you are getting the response again in the JSON format.
So that means what actually the data exchanging or storing is happened in the JSON format.
And it is very easy to understand, even if you feel some difficulty while reading the XML format or
other formats.
But JSON format, it is very, very easy to understand the data.
See, I have just shown you the students data.
Right.
So you can easily recognize if I look at this data, you can easily recognize how many records are there
and what is exactly this data is belongs to.
As soon as you see this content, you can easily understand.
Right?
So this is the first record of the student, second record of the student, third record of the student.
You can easily understand this.
Again, every student is having some ID, name, location, phone number and list of courses because
this is very easy human readable form and light weighted format.
So that is the reason most of the times in Rest APIs we will prefer to use a JSON format.
Okay.
And basically it is extended from the JavaScript language.
So there is a direct relationship between the JSON and JavaScript.
So that is the reason postman support validations only in the JavaScript.
So on what we were putting the validation points and JSON response.
So that is the reason the validations.
Also, we need to write only in the JavaScript because JSON is derived from the JavaScript language
only.
And what is the file extension?
Dot JSON is a file extension and every file there is a media type is available.
Application slash JSON is a media type.
Suppose you have request or response in the text format for example.
Then the media type will be application slash text and for the csv file some other media type will be
there, some PDF there is another media file will be there.
So different type of files having different type of media file.
But why it is required.
The media type is says what type of data we are sending, in which format of data we are sending to
the server, and which format of data we are receiving from the server.
So that information will be decided based on the media type.
Even if you see the postman request in the headers, you can see that actually content type.
You can see what is the content type here.
Application slash JSON.
What exactly it is representing.
It is representing the response.
What we get from the server is JSON format.
So this is also one of the important part.
We need to validate all the header details.
Also we need to validate cookies.
We need to validate body.
We need to validate headers.
We need to validate along with this status code time everything.
So all these validation points we need to keep inside the scripts.
So the content type is also most important.
That is the part of headers at the time of sending the request.
Also we will have something called header.
Here I go back and see it is showing six headers but it is not displaying here.
Hidden.
Yeah.
Now you can see here.
Do we have any content here created?
I think it is not created any content.
But sometimes when you pass any because it is a Get request, we are not sending any content, so it
is not giving anything.
But sometimes here also we need to validate the content type.
Okay.
So that is a media type.
So for JSON especially the media type is application slash JSON.
Right.
So now let us try to understand the data which is created in JSON format.
So to understand the data in JSON format first we need to know the data types.
So what are the different data types are available in JSON format.
There are four data types 3 to 4 very basic types.
Are there string?
We already know string is nothing but what a collection of characters or group of characters and how
we will represent the screen.
Normally in the double quotes strings we will represent in the double quotes symbol.
So if I look at this example, whenever you write a content in the JSON format, it will start with
the curly brace and with the curly brace.
This is comes under one single JSON object.
So it is started from the curly brace and with the curly brace any JSON file.
And if I look at here the name is John Doe.
So city New York status active.
What exactly they are name city status are called keys.
Every key is associated with some value.
And what type of value, what type of data it is.
It is string type of data.
And remember all keys must be included in the double quotations.
All the keys.
Suppose if the value is a string format that.
Also we need to enclose in the double quotations.
But if you assign some number.
For example, if I look at the second example age I want to store.
So age is what here key.
In this I am storing a number because it's a number.
I no need to put the double quotations, but every key should enclose within the double quotations.
So these are string type and these are the number types.
Okay.
String is one type and number is another type.
So here you can put either decimal numbers or integer numbers.
All are allowed.
And boolean type of data.
Also we can store sometimes if I look at here this is again another JSON object.
And you can see there are two keys.
Are there two variables.
Is a student false is employed true.
So false and true are what boolean values.
So this is a Boolean type of data.
Also we can put.
But when you assign boolean data you should not enclose in the double quotations.
And one more important thing here key and values are separated with the colon not equal to okay key.
And the values are separated with what colon and after key and value is completed another variable or
another data will be started after after comma.
Comma is separated.
Each value is separated with the comma.
And here also.
So age colon 30 means what age is the key?
30 is a value.
Comma means that record is end.
Now the next one height score.
These are number data types in JSON format.
Next one Boolean.
If I look at the boolean.
So this is false and true.
So when I say false and true we should not put in the double quotes.
And the last variable or last one should not have any semicolon because this is the last one.
Null is also another type.
Suppose I don't know any value.
I don't have any value for now.
So then simply you can say null.
Null is nothing but an unknown value, and that also we should not include double only strings.
We need to include in the double quotations and rest of the data we can directly put into, but all
key should be included in the double quotations.
It can be number variable or it can be string variable.
It can be boolean variable.
It can be array variable, any type of variable or any type of a key.
We should not call it as a variable.
Actually we should call it as a key.
So any key we should include in the double quotes the values can be depends type of data based on the
data type we need to add.
So these are the basic types string number a boolean null.
And now there are two important types array and object.
Array is nothing but what in simple definition what is an array?
Can anyone tell me what is an array?
Simple definition what is an array?
In every programming languages we have an array is simple to represent a group of values.
Group of elements.
Group of objects we use arrays.
Array is nothing but what it is representing group of values or group of objects.
Right.
So same thing in JSON also.
Array is representing a group of elements or group of values or group of objects.
Same thing.
Now how we can represent the array in the JSON format.
You can look at this starting curly brace.
Ending curly brace skills have taken one key variable called skills.
And I want to assign multiple values into this variable multiple values.
I want to assign the multiple values.
Previously I have assigned only one single value.
But this time I want to send multiple values to the skills.
So then you can put them in the square bracket.
You can see.
So this is actual array.
So this first value second value third value array index will start from zero itself.
These are zero element first element second element.
So group of elements including the square bracket square bracket is representing a JSON array and which
contains again string values.
All are string values.
So we put in the double quotations.
Now look at this once course colon.
And these are numbers.
This is number type of an array.
So this is one type of an array.
This is another type of an array.
And both arrays contains a group of values.
Sometimes array also contains a another JSON object.
Because array means what array contains a maybe primitive types or object type.
Also, sometimes array also contains a JSON objects.
But before that let us try to understand what is the JSON object.
So JSON object is nothing, but it is a group of keys and values.
Very simple.
If I look at this one, this is all one JSON object.
This is all one JSON object.
So let me just try to make you understand this.
So JSON will start with what curly brace starting point ending point.
Now this is the actual key person is a key.
And if I look at here again one more bracket is started here and the one more bracket is end here.
This one.
And whatever you can see inside this, this data is actually belongs to what person the data is belongs
to what person.
If I look at this particular format of the data, you can see here the person is having first name.
The person is having the last name.
See single value string string.
Now if I look at this address.
Address is having again city new York zip.
Can we use array here instead of this address.
No we cannot use array.
We cannot use array because key value pairs are there.
So whenever you have a key value pairs again we need to create another JSON object.
Now you can look at this address field or address key is having one more bracket here and here.
So this is one JSON object and this is again another object.
An object contains another JSON object.
So what is a JSON object?
Object is nothing but a group of keys and values is called object.
Now this is one object and this is the whole thing is one object.
The object contains another object.
Okay.
Object contains a another object.
So can we use city name and country name in the same array.
So here we have we have used a or not.
So do we have array here in this JSON object.
Do we have array or not.
Do we have array in this.
No there is no array here.
Have you used anywhere the square bracket?
No.
If I use square bracket individual values are there.
But this type of data you cannot store city zip.
And so here you cannot use array.
But we can use array in the different purpose.
I will show you that also.
So as of now this is a JSON object.
So started with the curly brace and with the curly brace.
Now, if you look at here, the person is started here and here.
And these are the two fields.
And address is started and end here.
So this is one JSON object.
And these are the two different variables.
And the overall the person itself is a another JSON object.
So that means what a JSON object contains another JSON object.
JSON object contains a another JSON object.
Just simple.
Remember, an object is a collection of key value pairs enclosed in the curly braces and keys are always
strings.
The values can be any JSON data type.
Values can be any data types.
If I look at here what data type we are using here, first name is what string?
What is the last name?
This is also string.
And what is the city?
This is also string.
What is a zip?
This is also string.
So JSON object is what a collection of key value pairs.
So this is a key and value.
Key and value.
This is the key.
These are the values.
Curly braces we have included.
And all keys are what strings and the values can be any type.
So this is JSON object which is representing an entity.
Currently this object is representing a person.
This object is representing a person.
Okay.
Now I will show you by combining all the types.
Then we will try to understand more about JSON type.
Now look at this.
This one.
So now you have to tell me I'll ask something here.
So from here to here one object.
There is no name for this object actually.
Now if I look at here, what are the keys are available here.
Name is one key.
Age is another.
Key is married.
Children.
Hobbies.
Address.
So these are the main keys.
And the name?
Age is married.
Children.
These are all normal, primitive data.
So name is having single value.
Age is having.
And this is a numeric type of date and is married.
False.
Boolean type of data.
Color is null.
Null type of data.
Now you tell me what is this?
Hobbies.
What type of data it is.
Array.
Array.
Because hobbies can be multiple right?
So those multiple values we kept inside the square bracket.
So this is reading traveling coding.
So this is a curly brace.
So hobbies is what an array is an array.
Now tell me what is an address here.
What is an address.
We understood these three things.
Hobbies is an array.
Now what is an address.
Address is a JSON object.
Why?
Because it started from curly brace and with the curly brace, which contains some key value pairs.
So the address is what?
JSON object.
Now what about the score?
Score is a JSON array or JSON object.
Scores.
Scores is again a JSON array which contains a group of values.
Again.
Finally profile complete.
Profile complete is again primitive type.
So this entire JSON contains everything.
Primitive values.
First 3 or 4 are primitive values.
Hobbes is a JSON array.
Address is a JSON object.
Scores again JSON array.
Profile complete.
Again a primitive type.
So now you understood the whole the structure of the JSON part.
So that's how we need to first split.
We need to understand as soon as you see the JSON file immediately you should notice which one is a
primitive.
Which one is JSON array.
Which one is a JSON object.
So now can you recognize easily by seeing the JSON format of data?
Yes.
Why can't write us a name?
Colon.
First name, last name.
So first name.
Last name where it is.
Yeah, you can write it.
Suppose if you want to store first name, name, last name, then you can make name as an array.
That is also correct.
Currently I have stored only one name.
Right.
If you want to store first name and last name.
So then you can make this as an array like this.
You can make like this.
And here you can put last name.
So this is the first name.
This is last name.
Then it becomes a JSON array.
So that is also correct.
You can put like this.
Okay understood.
Or another way you can put for example if you don't want to keep them in the JSON array then you can
put one variable for first name, another variable for last name.
So two variables you can create as a primitives.
So there is no way you can create multiple ways.
All right.
So this is how we need to understand the JSON format of data okay.
Now I'll show you a little bit complex data.
So let us look at this.
So I already given everything here.
You can understand this.
Where is exactly the JSON object started from the curly brace.
So from here to here is called what object starts and object end.
Now you tell me, what is this title?
Primitive title string.
This is a string.
Actually.
Other is what string?
This one.
Generic.
This is also string.
Now tell me, what is this detail?
Detail.
JSON object.
Because it started with the curly brace here and with the curly brace here.
So every keys have associated with some values.
So this detail is what object.
JSON object.
Now what is price here.
Yeah this is important price.
What about the price.
Price is started with a curly brace where it is end here.
Here it is.
End.
Starting point.
Ending point.
Now, if I look at this error means what group of elements.
So those elements can be strings.
The elements can be numbers.
Sometimes elements can be JSON objects because array also can store objects.
Now if I look at this this is one object.
This is another object.
Two objects are stored in one single JSON array.
Everybody's understood this part price is very important.
So now the price is an array which contains a two JSON objects two JSON object.
And if you want to access this object how we can access price of zero.
That will give this part.
And if you want to access this one then price of one.
So this part we can access okay.
So the JSON array contains the two JSON objects.
So this is another sample data.
Okay.
So these objects are not separated by in any JSON array.
So no no the JSON object this itself is one JSON object.
And inside this key and value pairs are there.
And this is another JSON object.
Key value pairs are there.
So if you want to access this entire object then price of one index price of zero.
This is price of one.
Again if you want to access individually we need to again use a dot symbol.
So I'll show you that comes under the JSON path okay.
That comes under the JSON path.
Suppose price have currency symbol.
How can we write even price is also having currency symbol that you can specify that.
So for example here type is there.
So here you can have a dollar symbol.
Then include that in the string format.
Or suppose you have a rupee symbol.
Include that in the double quotations.
There is no specific type for currency.
Just put everything in the double quotations if it is a purely decimal number or integer number.
Don't include in the double quotations, but other than this, if you have any other type of data,
you can put everything in the double quotations.
Okay, so so far what we have understood is what is JSON, how we can represent data in the JSON.
So price is an array name.
Exactly.
Price is a name of the array which contains two different objects because array can also contains objects.
Okay.
So when I say price of zero then you will get this object.
When I say price of one then you will get another object.
So that comes under the JSON path I'll explain that.
Okay.
So for everybody is clear.
What is JSON, how we can represent the data in the JSON.
What are the different data types are available in the JSON.
So for everybody is clear.
Please confirm in the chat box.
This is the fundamental thing which we need to understand before going further.
Very, very important.
Okay, so now we have understood the JSON part, but the very, very important thing is we have to extract
the data from this to perform validations.
Suppose I send some request API request.
Let us assume I send some API request.
Let's go back to the postman.
Let's say I have sent some API request.
Now I got this response.
In the response I want to verify my location is India or not.
It is written India.
But how?
We will know whether India what I'm exactly expecting or not so that we need to validate or in the courses.
Java is a part of the courses area or not.
I want to validate it.
So to validate it how we will do.
Normally when you add validation points, once you get a response, we will extract the data from the
JSON and we will compare with our expected data.
If both are equal, then our test will pass and the data is not equal then our test will fail.
So before comparing this data with our expected data, we have to first extract the data from the JSON.
After extraction we will compare it.
Otherwise no even for the web testing.
Also you do the same thing, right?
Suppose in the web application you have done some transaction and you got some acknowledgement message.
Suppose you have done some message you got.
Now you want to validate this.
How you will validate.
You will extract the text and compare it with your expected text.
If both are equal then my test is passed.
Both are not equal.
Test is failed right?
How?
We are extracting the text from the web page.
We are locating this element using XPath, right?
Same way in JSON response.
Also, if you want to validate any data, we need to extract the data from the JSON file or JSON data
or JSON response.
So once you extract it, we will get data that we need to compare with our expected data.
Okay.
So before comparison means for comparison is again part of the validation.
Comparison is again part of the validation.
But what we need to understand here is how to extract the data from this JSON, which is very, very
important.
And to extract the data from the JSON, we use something called JSON path okay.
From XML, XML path is derived.
The XML path is also called as a XPath.
In web application testing we use this XPath.
Similarly for JSON format of data, we have a JSON path.
We have a JSON path.
So now we need to understand.
We need to learn how to write JSON path to extract the data from the JSON data JSON response.
Okay, now you understood why we need JSON path, why we need to learn JSON path.
I'll show you some examples.
It is very simple, very easy.
Even XPath is more complex, but JSON path is very simple and there are so many predefined tools.
Also there you can easily create your own JSON path.
It will automatically create and you can automatically evaluate your JSON path is correct or not.
There are so many tools are there in the internet.
I'll show you how we can use JSON path and everything.
So let me go and JSON path.
Okay, simple JSON path is a query language for JSON data, just like XPath is there for XML.
Similarly JSON path is there for JSON data.
So what the JSON path will do, it will extract.
Just navigate to the exact data.
Exact value which is there in the JSON response.
And we use the different type of operators like dot square brackets, star star representing multiple
things.
Many things.
Square bracket is basically representing array elements.
Dot is representing some child elements okay.
So multiple symbols are there.
So by seeing examples we will try to understand this.
So this is an example JSON data currently I have.
So now we will try to create our own JSON paths to extract the data from this particular file.
Very simple.
We try to understand this okay I'll copy this JSON in my notepad.
Okay so this is my JSON.
Let me close this.
So it is very simple.
You guys can tell me how we can create JSON path okay.
So for example, let's say this is my store.
Inside this there is a book.
And what is a book here?
What is the type of book?
What is the type of the book?
You can see this, right.
So what is the type of the book here.
Right.
So let me save the file.
Store dot JSON.
Okay fine.
So if I look at this this is a JSON.
So what is the type of the book here.
Book is what is an array basically.
Right.
So array contains how many objects how many objects.
The book array contains how many objects.
How many objects the book array contains.
This is one object.
This is another object.
And this is end that is ended here.
So only two objects Right and how many variables we have in the store.
Store.
How many variables are there?
Book is one bicycle again, bicycle is another object.
Bicycle is again another JSON object.
Okay.
So now we need to extract some data from this JSON.
Same data.
I've copied whatever I have in PDF.
Same data I have copied.
So now I'll show you different type of requirements.
Case.
So let's try to understand this.
So my requirement is so I want to access for example mountain.
So this data I want to access or I want to extract that how we can write a JSON path.
So whenever you start writing the JSON path it will always start with the dollar.
Dollar sign is representing the the whole JSON object.
The entire JSON object is represented by single dollar okay.
Dollar.
And what is the starting object here?
Store.
Right.
So dollar dot store.
Dollar dot store.
And we need to.
Where is this mountain is present here.
It is a part of the bicycle.
And where is the bicycle?
Is present.
Is a part of the book part of the book or not?
No bicycle book or the changed elements of the store.
So book and bicycle.
These two are what changed elements of the store.
Now we want to access bicycle directly.
So how we can do that?
Dot dot bicycle like this.
You can write bicycle.
And again in the bicycle what is the value we want access mountain.
So what is the key for this value type.
So I can say dot type.
So this is how we need to write a JSON path.
So dot is representing the navigation.
So in XPath we use slashes for navigation right.
Similarly here we use a dart as a navigation now.
First it will go to the store.
From the store it will go to buy skill.
From the buy skill it will capture the value of the type.
So this is how normally we write the adjacent path okay.
For example now how many books are there in this book area?
How many elements are there?
How many objects are there.
Two objects are there.
So this is my first object.
This is my second object.
Now I want to capture the title Python Basics from second object of the book area.
Then how we can write a JSON path.
Can anyone guess?
Just type in the chat box where we have to start dollar dot.
We need to go to the store.
So in the store what which element we need to access book element we need to access.
So store dot book store dot book again in the book how many objects are there.
One and two objects are there and which object we want to access.
Second object we want to access second object in the sense what is the index of the second object?
One is the index.
Index will start from zero.
So the first object represented by zero.
Second object represented by one.
So book of one.
So now this JSON path will return the second object from the array.
But in the second object what exactly we want only title we want so dot title.
So this is how we need to write our JSON path to capture the title from the second object of an array.
Okay, so this is how we can create our own JSON paths.
We can create our own JSON paths okay.
So to make simplify this we no need to worry about this.
There are so many tools are available in internet.
I will show you what are the different tools are available in the market or in the internet to make
our job easy, so we no need to write more JSON parser.
Very simple.
So there are different websites are available.
So JSON Pathfinder is there.
So this is one of the website.
So let me go back and show you.
So here just to copy the JSON data I'll show you how to use this.
So I just copy my JSON data whatever I got in the response now.
So it will show you the structure.
Exactly.
The view has got changed.
You can see this.
This is the actual data which is there in this JSON.
Now which one you want to access from this.
Suppose I want to access this type of mountain.
Right.
So where it is here it is here.
So I just click on it.
As soon as you click on here it is automatically generated the JSON path.
So here x is basically represented by dollar actually.
So this is the JSON path which we can use to capture this mountain okay.
Suppose if you want to access uh the categories for example.
So how we can access how to write the JSON path.
Just go to categories and select this.
As soon as you selected this category it is automatically generated the JSON path okay.
So just you can click on the copy and use this JSON path in your test scripts.
Very simple okay.
Now if you want to access the price from the first array element.
So where it is there, here it is.
Just select it.
The path is automatically generated.
So this is very very simple JSON Pathfinder.
Similarly there are multiple websites are there.
There is another one here you can create your own JSON and you can validate also let me open this.
This is another one.
So here you can simply copy your own JSON.
Whatever data you have.
Now you can see it is automatically shown in the entire view.
So now if you want to capture the JSON of any element, suppose I want to capture this other information
JSON Jsonpath.
I want to write for capturing this other information.
Simply click on this other.
Now we can see it is automatically generated Jsonpath.
It is more simpler.
And if you want to suppose capture the mountain, click on this.
Now it is automatically generated the Jsonpath which will capture this mountain.
Okay now if you want if you create your own jsonpath and if you want to validate it.
So then you can use another one.
Suppose let me copy this and go to the next step.
Jsonpath evaluator.
Now I copied the same JSON data here.
Now here you can write your own Jsonpath.
Suppose I have written some Jsonpath here store dot mysql dot type.
Now we can just click on this evaluate.
Now you can see the result is given here.
So this is how we can also use this website.
So whatever JSON data you have you can just copy here write your own JSON path.
Click on evaluate and you can check whether your JSON path is properly giving the data correctly or
not.
So you can also evaluate.
You can also automatically generate JSON path.
So there are multiple things you can do using this website.
And there is another website called JSON path.com.
I have just listed only these three because these three are very popular.
But if I search in internet, there are so many sites you can find.
So this is another one.
So here simply you can copy your JSON data.
Let me copy the JSON data here.
Go here and just copy the JSON data.
So here you can write your own JSON path.
And here it will give you the results.
So I just given I'll just write some JSON path here.
I just copy from here and write your JSON path whatever you want.
Now you can see press enter.
If some error is there it will not give you anything.
Just write something.
See, when I say dollar which is representing the entire JSON.
So you got everything.
Suppose I'm writing something called dot store dot store.
Now you can see store data.
Now inside the store where I want to get I want to go to my book.
I say book now you can see only book details are captured.
Can you see this font?
I think this is very smaller.
Let me maximize see now whenever I say book here it shows only book related data.
It's not showing any bicycle related data.
Now again in the books I want to capture only the first record.
So then how we can capture array zero.
Now we can see you got only the first record in the array.
Again, inside this I want to capture only title.
So then you can add dot title.
Now you can see you captured only title.
So this is another website.
So you can write your own JSON path here.
And from this JSON data you will able to extract the data so you can cross-check here.
And once it is working fine, you can use this JSON path in your postman tool to add validation points.
Okay, so in the real time, if you are able to write your JSON path, you can write your own.
Or if you feel some difficulty while writing the JSON path, you can use these tools.
But in interview perspective you have to learn how to create JSON path.
Understood everyone.
So I have given these websites here you can try to use it and apart from this you can find so many websites
you can automatically generate the JSON paths, or you can create your own JSON path and validate whether
the JSON path is correctly retrieving the data or not from the JSON file data.
So you can do or you can explore this.
Okay.
So because this is very important to add validations.
So for example in the postman I got some response here.
So I want to verify this phone number is correct or not.
So how we can do that?
First I want to extract this data.
For that we need to write one JSON path.
And then I can compare the data with my expected data.
Then I can add validation.
So JSON path is very important to validate data in the response body.
Okay.
But other things we can easily do that the direct methods are there for status code time and everything.
Headers cookies, all those things we can directly easily verify because there are some built in methods
are available in the postman, but especially for validating the body, we have to use JSON path, which
is very important.
Okay, so just do continue practice on this.
Very simple.
Now I've given some examples in the document.
I will share this document today.
Go through each and every example whatever I have given and also try to create your own API student
APIs.
I will share the JSON file also student dot JSON file and create your own dummy APIs and try to add
some more requests like this and explore the JSON and JSON path.
Okay, so I'll stop here for today's session.
Get familiar with this.
In the next session, I will show you how we can add validation points or verification points.
We are just sending the request, but how we will know when the request is successful or not.
We are just seeing manually here status code and response.
We are confirming it but I don't want to see anything manual.
I don't want to test anything manually, I just want to add some validation points immediately.
I want to get the test results here so that happen by adding validation points.
Okay, so next class we will focus more on validations.
How many ways we can validate the response body and other stuff.
All right.
So that's all for today's session I'll stop here.
We will continue in the next class.