So in the previous class, uh, we have seen some of the commands or methods from selenium WebDriver

like get methods, conditional methods, browser methods, and so on.

And today we'll see, uh, most important weight methods.

Or we can say wait commands.

Okay, so first of all, uh, why do we need these weight commands and why selenium is provided?

And what are the different weighting mechanisms are there in selenium.

So we'll discuss them in detail.

So before that we need to understand something called.

Synchronization.

Synchronization.

So this is, uh, something, uh, most familiar word for automation.

Word synchronization means what?

So synchronization is something called it is a problem uh, in automation most of the times.

So if for for for every automation tool is having same kind of a problem.

And what is synchronization?

Synchronization means sometimes when you run your automation script, your script execution is very

faster than your application response.

Okay, suppose in your automation test script, you are launching some web page and trying to do some

action on the web page.

But when you're trying to do some action on the web page, by the time your web page is not yet loaded

or not yet ready, not only web page, sometimes the elements are not yet completely loaded or elements

are not available.

Then your script will throw some exception and that exception.

Most of the times it is no such element exception it will throw.

So that is because of synchronization problem.

So your application and your automation script both are not in the sync.

And if both are going parallelly exact equal equally, then now there is no problem.

But sometimes your application response will be very very slow when you compare with your automation

execution.

So in those cases you will get a exception and that you can solve by putting weight statements.

Okay.

That is called synchronization problem.

Okay.

So in the synchronization problem application speed we have to consider and automation test script in

these which one we can control.

But speed of the application is depends on multiple factors.

Sometimes your network is slow and uh then your speed of application is automatically your performance

of your application automatically reduced or reduced.

If your network is very slow and that is not in our control.

The second thing is, suppose even though your network is good, sometimes many people are accessing

that application, so obviously the performance will be reduced if number of people are increasing to

access the application.

So that is not in our control.

So the performance or speed of the application is not in our control.

It's always varies.

But your script and script execution you can control okay.

So by putting weight statements in your automation test script we can control the speed of your automation

script.

And then we can sync with our application speed.

So in that way we can solve synchronization problem okay.

So this problem is there for all all my every automation tool.

So every automation is having their own mechanisms to handle the synchronization problem.

And especially in selenium, there are three different ways or three different mechanisms are provided.

To solve the synchronization problem and by keeping implicit weight.

And then we have explicit weight, then we have a fluent weight.

So fluent weight is another flavor of explicit weight.

Actually both are almost the same.

But fluent weight is another flavor of explicit weight.

So mainly these are the weight statements are provided from selenium.

And there is another thing called thread dot sleep.

So that is not belongs to selenium.

Actually that comes from Java itself.

So what thread dot sleep will do is thread dot sleep command will pass your code for some time.

So let's say you have executed few lines of code.

And if you put thread dot sleep, that will pass your code and after completing the time and then it

will continue the rest of the code.

So thread dot sleep don't deal any with application.

Actually it don't know whether application is running or application is slow or fast.

The thread dot sleep doesn't know that.

But threadsleep just pass your code for some time, then continue execution.

But waiting statements are not like that.

Waiting statements will know exactly about application.

So it works based on it reacts based on the application response.

Okay, so thread dot sleep is another option which is available, but as a beginner we can use it.

But uh, exactly an automation.

Uh, we don't prefer thread or sleep most of the times because there are some limitations.

Okay, I will I will explain what is the problem with red dot sleep.

Okay.

Basically these are the weight statements.

I have three dot sleep which will come from Java implicit weight, explicit weight, and fluent weight.

So these are the three weights comes from selenium.

So if anybody asks during interview how many weights are supported in selenium.

Do not tell thread dot sleep okay.

Thread dot sleep is not belongs to selenium.

That is from Java itself.

Only implicit weight, explicit weight and fluent weight.

And that fluent weight is just another flavor of explicit weight.

Actually, it's not a different type of weight.

And the two is available only in Java Jar selenium Java combination.

But if you go with Python or any other language, fluent weight is not available, only implicit weight

and then explicit weight.

Okay, so now we'll see one by one.

Uh, we understood what is synchronization problem then how we can solve the synchronization problem.

By putting weight statements in our code or script we can solve the synchronization problem.

So in one program you can use multiple weight statements.

Two statements?

No problem.

But it doesn't make any sense.

Actually, I will tell you, if I use one statement, then what happens if I have two statements?

What happens or two different weights if I use what will happen?

Uh, suppose in the same program, if you put implicit and explicit weight, then what is the problem.

So we will see that okay.

Yeah.

First let us start with the.

Thread dot sleep because this is most of the people normally use as a beginner, and this is actually

a method.

Sleep is a method which is related to thread class and which is static method directly available in

thread class.

Thread is a predefined class in Java, and this particular method we have to pass time in milliseconds.

So time in milliseconds.

And, uh, wherever you want to wait in your automation script, you can put this command or method,

and this will pass your code for some time.

How much time it will pass depends on the how much time is specified.

So most of the times we specify time in milliseconds.

So 1000 milliseconds equal to one second okay.

Accordingly you can calculate and then specify.

Okay, first of all, if you have any synchronization problem okay, because of synchronization you

are getting some kind of exception.

Then how we can identify that.

And how we will know whether that issue is exactly related to synchronization.

So there are two popular exceptions we have in selenium.

One is no such element exception, not element not found exception.

No, no such element.

Exception when you will get.

If the element is not present on the web page, you will get this exception.

99% of the times this exception is related to the synchronization problem, so no such element exception

will.

You will get whenever you have a synchronization problem.

Element not found.

Exception you will get whenever you write some incorrect locator element is there in the web page,

but the locator, whatever you have written, that locator is not correct or not enough to identify

the element.

Then you will see element not found exception most of the times.

Okay.

And based on this you can identify no such element in the sense there may be some synchronization problem

you can identify.

Okay.

Now.

Sometimes in winter.

You also people may ask, what is the difference between these two exceptions and when you will get

no such element exception.

When you will get element not found exception.

Okay, you should able to explain this very carefully.

All right.

So first we will see the thread dot sleep command.

So very simple.

The dot sleep is a one single command red dot sleep and we wait some time and it will solve the synchronization

problem.

First we will see one example and then we'll come back and discuss advantages and disadvantages.

Every sleep statement is having their own uh plus and minus.

So we will try to understand them.

Let's go.

And at the end of the session, I will show you which, uh, type of weight statement is preferable

most of the times in our automation and which one is most effective way more how exactly it will work.

I'll show you.

Okay, so let's create a new package.

Today, day 27.

New glass.

Okay, so this is slip command.

Look.

So first of all, let me write some piece of code and then I'll show you the problem.

Let's say I don't have this sleep.

So this is small piece of code I have written.

So I think this issue we already aware the last classes when you're working with orange.

Hmm.

Application.

So there may be some uh synchronization problem.

So after launching page is fine.

That will work properly.

But to immediately whenever trying to interact with any of these element when you're trying to put some

value in the username box, or when you're trying to put some value in the password or click on the

login.

So whenever you want to try, whenever you try to do some action on this page as soon as it is loaded,

uh, there is a some exception we are getting.

So let me show you.

So what I have done in this, I created a WebDriver instance.

Drive driver driver equal to new chrome driver and launching the page and maximizing the page.

And after that I'm locating user name element which is an input box.

And in that I'm passing the value.

So one single statement I have written.

So this is simple code I have written.

And uh, we'll see how it is going to work.

And I haven't put any weight or anything, just a normal script.

Okay, so it is trying to launch a page and also it is maximized.

But you can see it is still not able to pass the value in the input box.

And if I go back and see you will see no such element exception.

And not only reading the exception, you will just see on which element is not able to.

Uh, locate.

So it will also show you the which element.

It is the locator part.

It will show you.

And based on this, you can easily understand or which statement it is trying to throw an exception.

Right.

So currently it is throwing an exception uh, on this particular line, this particular locator.

Okay.

But here we have written here we have used that locator.

But it doesn't mean like this statement is thrown exception okay.

So this launching the page maximizing the page.

But at the time of opening application and maximizing the page.

Our script executed this code, and by the time this script is executed, this statement, this element

is not fully loaded on the web page or not available on the web page by the time this statement is got

executed.

So that is the reason it is throwing no such element exception and that we need to identify.

So where exactly it is failing and why it is failing and because of which statement it is got failure.

So once you identified.

So now what we need to do.

After maximizing or opening the page.

Here you can put thread dot sleep.

Thread dot.

Sleep.

And we can specify some time five seconds, normal time.

Most of the times we specify.

And this will throw some exception at the runtime.

So you can just add this.

All right.

So what exactly we are doing it here is before interacting with this element.

We are asking to wait for five seconds.

We are not asking to the application application and there is no connection so this won't do anything

with application.

Application is loading or application is already loaded or application is going to load.

It doesn't know anything, it is just blindly wait five seconds.

That's it.

Whether application is fully loaded or not loaded, it doesn't matter.

So as soon as you put thread dot sleep or five five seconds, it will just wait for five seconds.

After that it will continue executing the next step.

So meanwhile what happens is.

After launching the page and maximizing the page, it will still loading the page, right?

By the time we are waiting for five seconds, and within five seconds the page will be fully loaded,

then the next statement will be executed successfully.

So this is the way we can solve.

Synchronization problem.

This is one of the way we can solve synchronization problem.

So now we can see launching the page.

Now it is waiting for five seconds.

And after five seconds within this five seconds what happens that application elements everything is

fully loaded.

And then it is trying to pass the value.

So this is a one approach which we have to solve the synchronization problem.

Thread dot sleep is okay.

And then we will understand what is the advantage and what is the disadvantages and why we should not

use this thread.

Why we don't recommend this to use in our automation.

So the problem with the thread dot sleep is there are only one advantage which is very easy to use.

Single statement, no logic, nothing.

And wherever you want to pass your script you can simply put one thread dot sleep.

So n number of places you can put.

So not only one time.

Wherever you find a synchronization problem, you can keep the statement multiple times.

Suppose you have written 1000 lines of code and ten places you are facing synchronization problem.

So ten times you can include the dot sleep.

So it is very very easy to use.

That's the main advantage.

So one single step and easy to use.

But what is the disadvantage of this?

Why we should not use.

There are three disadvantages out there with red dots.

The first three.

Advantage one advantage.

Whatever time we specified.

Right.

So this this is our expected time.

So we just specify some time here five seconds.

Because we specified the time here.

There are two problems.

One is.

Suppose if this element is available within two seconds, let us say after launching the page, this

element is available within the two seconds.

But still we are waiting another three seconds extra right.

So application element is available within two seconds.

But even though it is available our thread will not continue execution.

Still it will wait for another three seconds.

Once the time is over then only it will go to next statement.

Because of that, what happens?

It will cause the poor performance.

Your execution of your script will become slow.

Let's say you have put this thread dot sleep five times in five places.

You put five times in every time.

Let's say element is loaded early.

There's a five seconds maximum timeout.

You put two seconds element is loaded, or sometimes three seconds.

It will be loaded.

Sometimes it won't take much time.

In those cases, what happens is even though the element is available, still it will not immediately

continue the execution.

After completing the exact timeout.

Whatever is specified, then only it will go to the next statement.

So because of that, it will cause the poor performance, your execution speed or your automation script

performance will be automatically reduced because of that issue.

So that is one problem.

Another problem is suppose we don't know exactly how much time this element will take.

Time.

Suppose if it does take more than five seconds, let's say sometimes it takes 6 seconds or 7 seconds

or 10s.

So then this cannot handle the synchronization problem.

So it will just wait only five seconds.

After five seconds it will go and execute the next statement.

Why it is happening?

Because the thread dot sleep doesn't know about the elements or doesn't know about the application.

Nothing.

It is not aware related to application or elements.

He said just five.

Wait for five seconds, then go further.

Whether, uh, whether the element is already available or not or whether element is still not loaded

or not, it doesn't care anything about it.

It will just wait seconds and go further.

So in both the ways we have a problem with this, if the element is loaded quickly, then the time will

be wasted.

Rest of the time will be wasted if the element is not loaded on time also, or if it is exceeded more

than five seconds, then also there is a problem with red dot sleep.

Okay.

Why?

Because we cannot predict.

Right?

Within five seconds element will be loaded, so no guarantee.

Sometimes it may take more seconds.

Sometimes it will take less seconds.

So that is the reason thread dot sleep is not dynamic, it is just a static time.

So that is the reason.

If the time is not sufficient, whatever time is specified, if it is not sufficient, then definitely

will get an exception.

Again, you will get a no such element exception.

Second problem, it will wait for maximum timeout.

So that will cause the performance issues.

So why?

Because I say five seconds.

I specified element is loaded within two seconds, then another three seconds will be wasted.

So even though the element is loaded quickly, still there is a problem with the thread, so it will

wait for maximum timeout.

So then this will reduce the performance of your automation script.

The second problem.

Third problem is.

We have to put this multiple places.

Let's say you have written 100 lines of code.

You are identifying synchronization problem in 3 to 4 places.

In all 3 to 4 times.

You have to include this red box multiple times you have to include in thread dot sleep.

So that is another problem.

So these are the three disadvantages which we have with the thread dot sleep.

But initial level that is still fine.

You can solve synchronization problem, but once you're writing advanced automation script, or once

you are in developing some kind of a automation framework, don't prefer to use thread or sleep.

Try to go with either implicit weight or explicit weight.

Okay, so this is all about thread dot sleep.

So thread dot sleep at the beginning level.

That's fine.

Still use it.

But later on we don't recommend to use red dot sleep because as soon as you are trying to increase a

number of automation test scripts, the performance is most important.

Okay, suppose you have written automation script.

If it is taking more time to execute, no use, right?

So as soon as early as possible the automation script should be executed and produce the results.

So third Lord sleep commands.

Will park will cause the reducing the performance of your automation test script.

So that is a major problem with the three dots.

Right.

So now let us move on to the actual weight statements provided by selenium.

One is implicit weight.

One is explicit weight.

So the next one.

So during interview you will get so many kinds of questions related to this topic.

So listen each and every point, whatever I'm discussing here.

Okay.

Next one implicit weight.

This is very popular with most of the people will use and prefer, and also it is very easy to use.

And to use this implicit weight command, we now need to predict the synchronization problem.

Even if you don't have a synchronization problem, still we can put this implicit weight.

Okay.

This will not impact any performance or anything.

It's very easy and very simple.

So I'll show you how we can use this.

So.

So in selenium the implicit weight how we can add implicit weight.

So implicit.

Wait, we can put only one single time.

We no need to write multiple statements.

And also we no need to predict the synchronization problem.

Let's say you are doing some multiple flows in your application through automation, and there is somewhere

in some flow may fail because of synchronization problem.

So even though you are not aware of that particular, uh, synchronization problem, condition or scenario

or page, still you can use implicit.

Wait, just like a safe side.

Okay.

So how we can put implicit wait.

Let me close this.

Shall create another example taking duplicate copy.

And here I'll say.

Embrace it.

Wait command.

All right, so now I'm just removing this thread.

Dot sleep.

Okay, now I remove the thread dot sleep.

So this will throw no such element exception because there is a synchronization problem.

So how we can use implicit.

Wait.

So the first point.

So whenever you want to use implicit weight you know need to predict the synchronization.

So whether you are getting synchronization problem or not it doesn't matter.

Simply you can put one more command here.

After creating the driver instance you can use something called driver dot.

There is a method called manage driver dot manage dot.

There is another method we have to call called timeouts.

In this we have something called implicit wait method.

So first we need to call manage method that will return options object.

From that.

Again we are calling timeouts method that will return timeouts object.

From the timeouts, we are calling one more method called implicit.

Wait, so that will return also timeouts.

Okay.

So in this we have to pass the time.

We have to specify some time implicit.

Wait.

Okay, so how we can specify the time in the implicit wait to specify the time in implicit wait, we

cannot directly specify the number like in three if we put five 5000 milliseconds right.

It is not like that.

So we have to use some special class called duration class.

In this we have a method called duration dot.

Off.

When I say OIF, it will show you multiple methods.

You can specify time in seconds, milliseconds, minutes, hours, days.

Also you can specify.

See there are multiple methods out there.

So you normally we take seconds or milliseconds.

So let's take seconds.

How seconds I'm taking.

And here you have to specify the time in seconds.

So let's say maximum 10s I'm switching these are standard time and then say semicolon.

This is called implicit weight.

One single statement which includes multiple things actually.

So driver we have to first create by using only driver instance.

We can put this implicit weight statement only one time the two after completing the web driver instance.

So driver dot manage dot timeouts dot implicitly wait.

And this will say time duration dot off.

Second, the off seconds is a static method which is available inside the duration class which is also

predefined class.

This will take one parameter that is your time in seconds.

And if you want to pass milliseconds, then you have to take another method of milliseconds or off uh

off minutes of seconds.

So multiple methods are there.

You can take one of this method.

Okay, let me finish the topic.

Okay.

Still not not executed.

So this is one single statement we can put after finishing the driver instance.

Okay.

Now how exactly it will work.

So we will understand that.

So first of all we will see whether it will solve the synchronization problem or not.

I'm just running as a Java application.

Yes.

So it is trying to pass the value.

So implicit weight is properly working.

I'll answer all your questions.

So probably in my explanation, all your answers will be clarified.

I think you are curious to know about this.

Just wait for some time.

All right.

So let's understand how exactly this will work.

And advantages and disadvantages.

And remember a few important points about implicit.

The first point.

Whenever you want to use implicit weight, that should be keep after creating the driver.

Okay at the beginning of the automation script.

So why we have to keep in the beginning of the automation script?

Because.

Whether this implicit weight command, whatever statement we put.

On what basis we are keeping this by using driver instance, right?

And this driver object is alive.

Till you close the driver.

Suppose at the end of the code you use something called driver dot close or driver dot quit right till

that particular time this driver is alive.

Yes or no.

We can use this driver instance to perform multiple type of operations.

But when this driver will be closed at the time of calling close method or quit method, the driver

will be killed.

The driver will be automatically quit till the time the driver is alive.

Okay, now we are putting this implicit weight command by using driver instance.

What does that mean?

This implicit weight is applicable till the driver is alive.

That means this implicit weight is available throughout your automation script.

For every statement this implicit weight is applicable.

So with whichever statement you are referring driver instance everywhere this implicit weight is applicable.

That means almost in every statement this implicit weight is applied on every statement is implicit

weight is applied.

It doesn't mean every statement will wait for 10s.

So what I'm saying is this implicit weight is applicable for every statement.

If I've written 100 lines of code.

Every line is applicable.

Implicit weight is applied on every line.

But we will get another doubt.

We put 10s here, but implicit wait will wait for 10s for every statement to execute.

Just like a thread dot sleep.

No it will not wait for 10s for every statement.

But why?

We specify the 10s and how we can handle this synchronization problem is.

Suppose.

We are trying to do some operation here.

Let's say here we are launching the browser, maximizing the page, finding the element.

We are doing multiple operations.

Suppose if this operation is completed immediately, without having any problem, without having any

synchronization issue, then it will go and execute the next statement as usual.

Suppose if this.

If this element is loaded immediately, just within 1 seconds or 2 seconds, it will go and continue.

So it will not consider this time.

But suppose if there is any statement which is taking more time to load or more time to interact, then

it will wait.

Maximum 10s.

That's how implicit weight will work.

Implicit weight is applicable for every element in your automation, but it will not wait 10s for every

time.

But when it will wait 10s.

If any of the statement you have written five statements or ten statements in ten statements, at least

1 or 2 statements will take more time, right?

In those times only it will consider 10s.

It will wait maximum 10s for the element.

Suppose if the element is loaded within 5 seconds or 2 seconds or three seconds, then it will continue

execution it.

It will not waste the time unnecessarily.

But in thread dot sleep the time will be wasted and say five seconds.

Within three seconds element is loaded, two seconds will be wasted in thread dot sleep.

But here it's not like that.

Suppose if the element or page is loaded within 2 seconds or 3 seconds, and rest of the time it will

not consider it will directly go to the next statement and then it will execute.

But when it will execute maximum 10s if the element is still not loaded.

Okay, it is still waiting or it is still loading, then it can wait.

Maximum 10s.

So that's how implicit wait work.

So when you compare with all other, uh, where's implicit wait.

Seems very, very simple and very use, only one single statement can handle all kinds of synchronization

problem throughout your automation.

One single implicit wait is enough.

Okay.

And that why we put in the beginning?

Because we want to apply this for all the elements.

Suppose if we put this weight statement okay here, then what happens.

This implicit weight start working from this particular statement and before statement it will not consider.

So that is the reason we put this implicit weight statement at the beginning itself.

As soon as we created the driver instance.

So then onwards it will start applying this implicit weight for every statement in your automation script.

So now if I look at advantages and disadvantages of this implicit weight.

Only one disadvantage.

I'm sorry.

It is.

This is syntax to use.

Okay.

So advantages.

Only one disadvantage is there but more advantages are there.

So what are the advantages we'll discuss first single time or one time single statement.

So we no need to write multiple times.

Even thread dot sleep.

We have to put multiple times.

And moreover we have to predict the synchronization problem.

But here we no need to predict any synchronization problem.

So we don't know where we will get a synchronization problem.

So in that case you can use single time.

And one single statement will solve the synchronization problem.

Only one single time you have to use.

And the second is it will not wait till maximum time if the element is available.

So because of data there is no performance issues.

But in script in Thread.sleep it is waiting for maximum timeout every time.

So that is the reason there is a performance error.

But this time we don't need we don't have any kind of performance issues.

Why?

Because implicit wait will not wait for every element here.

Suppose if this tie.

If this element is taking time to load, then maximum 10s it will wait.

Or suppose if the element is loaded within five seconds, then it will continue executing the next code.

But unnecessarily it will not wait rest of the five seconds.

So there is no problem with the performance issue, so it will not wait till maximum time if the element

is available.

So applicable for all the elements.

One single statement applicable for all the elements throughout the order.

Automation and very easy to use because a single statement.

But what is the disadvantage?

Only one disadvantage that also there in thread.sleep.

One disadvantage is suppose if the element is still not loaded within 10s, it will wait maximum 10s

if there is any synchronization problem.

But if the element is still not loaded within 10s, still there is a chance of getting no such element

exception.

Okay.

That is again problem is there?

So no such element exception you will get.

But most of the times how to handle this ten is a standard time.

So even though if you have a very worst performance of your application, the elements should be loaded

or pages should be loaded within 10s that is a standard.

Actually, there's a benchmark.

But still your application is taking more than 10s.

Or if the elements are loading very, very slowly, that also taking more than 10s.

You can happily report the performance issues on your application.

Okay, but normally as per the performance benchmarks.

10s is a time okay, it should not exceed the 10s and then if we exceed the more than 10s, we will

consider that as a very poor performance of our application.

So the developer has to fix the performance issues of the application.

Remember that.

So when you use implicit weight but still there is a chance of getting an exception.

So we will handle by using try catch block.

So you can just put this statement in the try block.

And inside the catch block write no such element exception and then exit from the code.

So like that we can simply handle.

So this is implicit weight.

And what is an advantage is again if the time is not enough.

Still there is a chance of getting a exception.

If the time is not sufficient then you will get an exception.

So when you compare with thread dot sleep.

Do we have any advantages or not?

When you compare with red dot sleep.

Especially performance wise.

Implicit weight is a best option when you compare with the thread.

So thread dot sleep is a worst actually, so it will cause a lot of performance.

But if you have a small script you don't find much difference.

But in the real time you will have so many automation test script.

So while executing automation test script thread dot sleep will play most important role.

It will try to reduce the performance of your automation script.

But the implicit weight we don't have such problem because it will not wait for every time, every element.

As soon as element is available, it will immediately go and execute.

If the element is still not loaded, it will wait for that element.

If the element is loaded then it will go up.

Okay, so this is all about.

Implicit weight.

Advantages and disadvantages.

Understood everyone.

So this is all about implicit.

Wait, how exactly it will work?

So what is the default time of implicit weight interrogation?

So what is a default time of implicit weight?

We put some time here 10s or five or 20s, whatever you want.

But what is the default time?

How much time?

It will wait by default?

In zero seconds.

And zero is a default.

Timeout means what?

That's the reason it is not waiting for every element when it will wait.

If if there is any synchronization problem then it will wait for the 10s.

Otherwise zero seconds.

If the element is available then immediately it will.

It will perform the action.

It will go to the next statement.

It will not wait actually.

But if the element is not available then it will wait for 10s.

So the default timeout of implicit wait is zero seconds.

Okay, now let's move on to the.

Explicit weight.

Explicit wait is another.

An implicit and explicit wait is purely belongs to selenium.

Thread dot sleep is not belongs to selenium.

It is comes from Java itself.

Yeah.

Okay.

Now explicit.

Wait.

So when you compare with implicit end thread dot sleep, explicit weight works, uh, more efficiently.

Yes.

If you're if you put implicit weight, the dot is not necessarily needed.

No need of that.

Okay.

Implicit weight will solve all kinds of synchronization problems.

So that dot sleep is not at all needed.

One implicit weight is enough.

All right.

So now explicit weight.

Explicit weight.

When you compare with implicit weight, explicit weight is little complex.

But it is more efficient than implicit weight.

Right.

So what is the major difference between implicit weight and explicit weight?

Implicit weight.

Mainly consider the time we specified, so whatever time we specified here.

Implicit weight works based on the time specified.

That is a hard coded value.

We cannot pass this time dynamically, because we don't know how much time it will take to load the

page or load the element.

We don't know, but we are just assuming something and we are specifying some.

Maximum timeout is ten.

Okay, but in explicit.

Works based on the condition, not based on the type.

Okay.

In implicit wait, it will consider only the time is matter, but in explicit it will take two considerations.

One is time and another one is condition.

Based on the condition and time, it will take two options and works implicit wait.

Consider only the time it don't have any conditions.

We haven't specify any conditions here.

Okay, so explicit weight works based on the time and the condition.

So time we already know.

Time means every way.

Every way.

Statement.

We have to specify some time so we will know the time.

But what about the condition?

This is the extra thing which we added only in the explicit way, which is not there in implicit weight.

Based on time and condition.

Okay, at the time of creating explicit weight, anyway, we specify the time, but what is the condition?

So in explicit way, there are two things we need to consider.

It is not a single statement, so there are two parts.

While adding explicit weight, one is called.

We have to first declare the explicit weight, then we have to use it.

Declaration of explicit weight.

Is different.

And once you declare it, then we can use it in multiple places.

Explicit wait.

Also, we have to use in multiple places.

It is not a one single time.

It's not like a implicit wait implicit wait in one single statement.

But explicit is not like the declaration is one part that is only one time job.

Once you declare explicit wait, we can use it in multiple places wherever you will get a synchronization

problem.

Okay.

Two parts.

So now I'll show you practically.

Then we will try to understand more.

Let me close this.

So this is.

Explicit weight command.

All right.

Now I just removing this implicit weight.

All right.

So how to use explicit weight.

The first thing is we have to declare explicit weight in our automation declaration and usage.

There are two parts in ECS explicit weight.

So where we have to declare as soon as you create the driver instance immediately you can create explicit

weight object.

So in selenium there is a special class called WebDriver weight.

WebDriver weight is a special class.

For that we will create one object called as say my weight equal to.

My weight equal to.

A new web driver.

Wait.

So the web driver wait is a predefined class which is already there in selenium.

So we have to take the help of this web driver.

Wait class object.

So this web driver wait we have to import from org dot OpenGL dot selenium dot support dot ui.

So this is the import package.

Now when you creating the object new WebDriver.

Wait.

We have to pass two parameters here.

In the constructor of WebDriver wait class we have to pass two parameters.

One is the driver parameter.

Whatever we created that we have to pass.

Second parameter is the time we specify.

So whenever you want to specify the time in implicit wait and explicit wait or fluent wait, we use

something called duration class.

And duration dot of seconds and maximum 10s I put here.

So this is called explicit weight declaration not usage.

So this is called.

Explicit weight.

Declaration.

Just redeclare the explicit wait by using WebDriver wait class.

Okay, now this is not enough.

So we have to use this web driver.

Wait in multiple places.

Wherever the synchronization problem occurs, we have to use this explicit weight.

Okay, so how to use it?

Suppose after launching my page here.

So this element is throwing an exception.

So for what?

I should wait here.

After launching the page, I should wait for this particular element.

Right.

That is my condition, actually.

So after launching my page for what?

I will wait.

What is the purpose of waiting?

Because I want to get that element.

So I should get this element on the web page.

So after launching the page I should wait for this element.

For more.

You are waiting.

That is God condition.

So I am waiting for this element to be displayed on the page.

Or I'm waiting for this element to be available on the page.

Or I'm waiting for some element that should be clickable.

Or I'm waiting for the element that should be selected.

There are multiple conditions out there.

So based on the conditions.

We have to apply explicit weight.

So here in explicit weight condition will play more very very important role.

Okay so now I know I'm wait I should wait for this element.

After launching the page I should wait for this element.

That is a condition.

So how we can apply that.

Here we have to say something called whatever object we created.

My weight.

Take this object.

Dot my way to dot.

There is a method called until.

So this method we have to use to put the condition my weight dot until that means what we are waiting

for.

This particular element.

Right.

So that you have to specify my weight or until inside the bracket there is another class called expected

conditions.

Expected conditions.

In this we can find all the conditions.

So we don't know which condition right.

You can find one of the condition.

You can choose one of the condition here.

There are so many conditions are there.

So element related conditions.

So you can see element state to be element to be clickable okay.

Element to be selected.

So there are different type of conditions.

Are there presence of element located number of elements to be.

There are so many conditions are there are visibility of elements.

So whichever condition is appropriate to that particular statement, we can use it.

So here what is my condition is I want to wait here till this element is available.

Or you can say what is the expected condition to be.

So this element should be available on the page.

That's my condition.

So I am waiting for what this element to be available on the page, or this element to be visible on

the page.

That's the condition.

So here I'm taking one condition.

Expected conditions dot.

Visibility of element.

Visibility of element located.

I'm taking this method.

Visibility of element located.

And which element we have to tell which element.

You have to specify the locator part.

So by dot XPath which element you are waiting for this particular element so that you can specify in

the XPath here.

Okay.

And then put the semicolon.

This is the complete statement.

And one more important thing.

So let us try to understand this.

This is called usage of explicit weight.

This is a usage of.

Explicit weight.

Right.

So let's try to understand this.

So what is my weight here.

My weight is a explicit weight class WebDriver weight class object dot until expected conditions is

what visibility of element located.

This is my condition, the element whatever element I'm passing here that should be located on the web

page and that should be visible which element through the locator.

We have to specify now what this statement will do actually is.

As soon as you're loading this page.

This until is right.

So what this until until will return and web element until is a method which will return a web element.

You put the cursor here, it will show you web element type.

So when it will return the web element if this condition becomes true.

Then only it will return the web element.

But when this will return true.

Internally expected conditions.

Dot visibility of element located.

So when this will return true.

If you find any element on the page.

With this locator.

If you find any element on the web page with this locator, then only this expected conditions will

become true.

Whenever it becomes true, then until is a method which will return that web element.

Whichever element we are trying to wait here, the web element it will return.

So what is that web element is let's say txt username input box.

And this variable type is also web element.

Okay, now we need to import this web element.

So this is how we can use explicit weight.

Okay.

Now you will get one question.

We are not using find element here or find elements.

But how come it is returning the web element?

So when I working with the explicit weight.

Finding the element or identifying the element is inclusive.

You can see we are specifying the locator right in explicit weight.

We are specifying the locator.

So by using this locator it is trying to find the element.

First it is waiting for the element.

As soon as the element is available or visible capture that web element and returned by until method.

That's the reason we are storing that element in a variable.

So when I use explicit weight.

You.

No need to use find element.

Why?

Because identifying the element is inclusive in explicit wait.

So that is the reason you can simply remove this part and take this element.

Okay.

And then use Sendkeys method.

That's it.

Okay, so my weight is an object of WebDriver weight until we specify the condition for the element.

If the condition is satisfied, then return the element and then we perform the action.

So explicit.

Wait is element specific.

So this explicit wait works only for this this particular element.

So if you want to wait for some other element again you have to repeat the same thing.

Suppose I want to wait for password element.

So then you can write another one.

And here you have to specify the password locator.

So in this page if I look at the password.

Inspect.

So the explicit weight is a element specific.

Remember this and multiple places.

We have to keep whichever element we're throwing.

Some exception we can put like this.

So this is a XPath of the password element.

So this is I'm saying txt pwt.

So now take this element and send the keys.

You can pass the password as admin 123.

Like this.

So I put explicit weight for the username I put explicit weight for the password also but not mandatory.

But if you face any synchronization problem then you can put.

So this is called explicit weight declaration.

And here we have used explicit weight here and this condition.

Will be changed different based on different situations.

Okay.

For example, uh, I want to wait for this login button.

Okay, so now why my condition can be different.

Suppose the visibility of the element located.

I can still use the visibility of the element located.

I can specify the login button XPath.

That is still fine, but sometimes what happens is even though the element is available or element is

visible, it will take few seconds to allow us to click on the login button immediately.

We cannot click as soon as your page is loaded immediately we cannot click on this.

It may take few seconds of time.

Uh, to allow us to click.

In that case, we can change the condition.

So not only visibility, it should be clickable.

So we have to wait till this element to be clickable.

So in that case we can change the condition also.

So for example let's say.

I'm taking one more, let's say my weight.

Dot until my way to dot.

Until.

Expected conditions.

Dot.

Here we have one more method called element.

To be clickable.

Element to be clickable.

And here we can specify the locator of the element.

So if I go back and see login button, I'm inspecting.

So this is a locator of the login button so that you can specify.

So now this time what happens is if this element is clickable.

So we need to say by dot XPath.

By XPath and then we can specify the locator.

So this time what happens is.

This will wait.

For what?

This element to be clickable.

Then only it will return the element so that I'm going to store.

In a variable login button.

And it is web element.

So what is the next step once we get a web element?

We have to perform the click action.

So before clicking before directly clicking on this element, we are waiting for the element.

And once it is returned then we are performing the action.

Same thing.

We are repeating every step.

So before performing the action we are waiting for the element.

Once it is available, return the web element and then we perform the action here also we are waiting

for the element.

Once it is returned, then we are performing the action.

So you have to notice one thing.

Basically, we are waiting for the element.

Condition.

We are not considering the time here.

We are waiting for the element here also.

We are waiting for the element here also.

We are waiting for the element if the element is available, if the element is clickable or if the element

is visible, then it will return the element.

Then only we are performing the action.

That means explicit wait is conditional based.

First, it will consider the condition what type of condition we put.

Okay.

And if the condition is satisfied, return the element and then we will continue performing the operation.

Okay.

That's fine.

So here we put some condition based on the condition it is waiting for the element.

That is fine.

But why?

We specify the time here.

If you are considering the condition.

Right.

But why?

Time is required.

Why we time is required here.

So at the time of executing your automation code.

Right.

You will know the synchronization problem issues.

You will face a lot of problems in synchronization problem.

So you don't need to predict that.

Actually it is not like an exception.

Exception.

We have to predict because based on the user mistake you will get an exception.

But here synchronization problem we cannot predict actually.

But once you executing your automation code okay based on the exception you will get, you will assume

there is a synchronization problem okay.

So in explicit way we are mainly considering the condition first based on the condition it is returning

the element.

And then we are performing the action.

But what is the time here.

So.

Explicit wait.

Consider condition and then time both it will consider, but the first priority will be given to the

condition.

I suppose if the condition is not satisfied.

Suppose this condition is not satisfied within 10s, then it will throw an exception, otherwise not.

Okay.

So first it will consider the condition.

If the condition is satisfied, immediately return the element and continue the execution.

But suppose if the time if the condition is not satisfied, how much time it should wait?

How much damage should we have to specify that?

Okay.

If the condition is not satisfied, just wait for this much of time and then exit from it.

We have to tell that so that you can specify in the beginning, at the time of creating the explicit

wait object, we have to specify the time.

But initially at the time of execution, it will consider the condition.

If the condition is not satisfied, then only it will check the timeout and will meet maximum timeout

10s and then it will exit.

So if you want to understand this better, I will give you one more example.

With an example we can understand if the condition is specified again why the timeout is required.

We have to specify some maximum timeout if you look at here.

Let us say there are two friends want to meet in some place exactly 5 p.m..

Let's say 5 p.m. is the time they have decided.

And those two friends should come from the different places.

And they wanted to meet exactly 5 p.m. in one single place.

Now the first friend exactly arrived here at the 5 p.m..

And he is waiting for what?

Another friend to come.

But this friend has committed to come here exactly in the 5 p.m..

But he's not at come at 5 p.m..

So how much time he should wait?

Actually, what is the condition in this scenario?

The friend is waiting for another friend.

His friend is waiting for another friend.

That is the condition.

How much time he should wait?

Maximum 10 minutes or 15 minutes.

Not more than that.

Right.

If the friend is not came within this time, definitely there is some problem happen here.

So here he is waiting for his friend.

But he cannot wait for one hour, two hours, three hours.

Right?

So we have to specify some cutoff time.

10 minutes or 15 minutes.

Some cut off time should be there so he can wait till that time.

And if is not comes then he can go back.

So same scenario will happen in an explicit way.

We specify the time.

But this time is applicable if the condition is not satisfied.

So we are waiting for the condition to be true.

If the condition is true, it will return the web element.

But when the condition becomes true, if the element is available or clickable, then element is, then

the condition becomes true.

If the condition is true, return the web element and still, if the element is not matching or not

loaded, then maximum 10s it will wait.

After 10s it will throw the exception.

So this is more efficient than implicit.

Wait.

But in one context is element specific.

Element specific.

So we have to.

Predict that actually.

So synchronization problem.

Once it comes then you can apply this.

So this is not applicable for all the elements.

So whichever element is having synchronization problem we can apply this explicit weight for the individual

elements.

Individual elements.

So this is how explicit void works.

Let me execute.

So launching my page, entering username password, then clicking on the continue button.

So successfully done.

So this is another way to handle the exception.

So now we will try to understand about explicit weight.

Advantages and then disadvantages.

Just.

So few points.

We need to remember again the same kind of advantage disadvantage.

Is it because if the condition is not matching again, it will go and consider the time, right?

If even the time is not sufficient, still there is a chance of getting an exception.

Yes, if the condition is not satisfied then it will return no such element exception that is still

there.

So few points we need to remember.

Explicit weight is what?

Conditional based?

So according to along with the time, we also additionally adding some conditions so it will work more

effectively.

And the second point is finding the element is inclusive.

Okay.

Finding the element is inclusive.

We no need to write a find element or find element separately.

Okay, but there are some scenarios.

Are there for some conditions.

Uh, we don't need to write find element or we no need to write.

Locator must and should can remove this point.

So finding element is inclusive means when I use explicit wait command.

So we no need to write additional find element or find element separately.

So explicit wait itself will find the elements and return the element if the condition is true.

The second one.

Next point.

It will wait for condition to be true, then only it will consider the time.

So it will wait for the element, right?

That is the condition.

The condition should be satisfied.

And within 10s we specify.

Right?

So within 10s it will try to find the element by using the condition.

And if the condition is false, it will wait for maximum seconds to condition to be true and within

10s.

If the condition not become true, that means element is not matching or element is not available,

then it will throw no such element exception.

And one problem with this is we need to write a multiple statements for multiple elements.

So wherever the synchronization problem occurs in all the places we have to write, explicit weight

and declaration will happen only one time.

We no need to declare multiple times.

So once you declare this explicit weight, we can use this weight object in multiple places.

Here I have used here, I have used here also.

I have used so multiple places you can use this object.

So this is another way to solve the synchronization problem using explicit weight.

And people will feel some difficulty in this.

So most of the people will prefer to use implicit weight most of the times.

But efficiency wise explicit weight works more efficiently than implicit weight.

But the usage wise implicit is more, uh, flexible than explicit weight.

User point of view, but efficiency.

Point of view.

Performance.

Point of view.

Execution point of view.

Explicit weight works more efficiently than implicit weight and user point of view or easiness point

of view.

Implicit weight works more efficiently.

Okay.

So this is all about.

Explicit.

Wait, so there are multiple conditions, are there in expected conditions?

Whatever.

We are calling this predefined method class in this there are so many conditions.

Ah.

So these conditions we will prefer to use in different conditions or different situations.

Suppose let is present element selection state to be element to be clickable, element to be selected

okay and different title on title.

Also title is title contains a visibility of visibility of all elements, multiple elements.

Sometimes you want to.

You are waiting for group of elements to be loaded.

Then you can use this method.

Visibility of all elements.

Visibility of all elements located by.

So this will return group of web elements multiple web elements because we have find element find elements

right here.

Also visibility of element located visibility of all elements located.

So multiple methods are there.

So these are the different conditional methods we will use in the different scenarios okay.

All right.

So this is all about explicit.

Wait.

So is it clear so far everyone.

Can we generalize that if web page has many objects?

Better to use explicit weight just to ensure all the objects.

So normally what happens is.

In the web page.

If you write explicit weight for one element, that is enough.

If you are working at same page, okay?

Because if one element is loaded, the rest of the elements also loaded.

Obviously it will not take much time.

So if you write explicit, wait for one element.

Suppose in this example I have written explicit wait for three elements actually.

So it is not necessary.

If you apply explicit wait for one element, that is enough.

If this element is loaded, that means the rest of the elements also loaded.

No problem.

But if you are navigating between multiple pages, then in the first page you can put apply.

You can apply weight statement for one element.

In the next page.

You can apply weight statement for one element.

In the third page you can apply weight statement for some element.

So at least take one element from one page and apply weight for that element.

That is enough.

You don't need to put explicit weight for every element.

You have ten elements in the form.

Let's say you have an application form.

You have ten input boxes, three buttons, multiple check boxes.

So it is tedious task to put explicit weight for every element, right?

So it's not recommended.

It's not at all needed.

Also, just 1 or 2 elements.

You can put explicit weight.

That is enough.

But when you're changing the page.

Then you can put another weight statement in another page.

Okay.

That is a recommended option.

So even in explicit weight.

Also, if this condition is false, the time is got reached, then no such element exception will come

and that we can handle again using try catch block.

All right, so now we'll see.

Fluent.

Wait.

That is more advanced than explicit.

Wait.

On top of explicit wait.

Fluent wait is got created.

So that is very complex than explicit wait.

But we need to understand which is most important in injury perspective at least.

Even though if you're not using it in your automation.

But still it is most important to use I mean, important to know, uh, interior perspective.

But some people will still use fluent.

Wait.

If you are familiar with the fluent wait, you can still use, but I will tell you which one is more

preferable and which one is more efficient.

We'll compare all the wait statement later, right?

So now let me show you how we can work with the fluent.

Wait.

Next one.

So fluent.

Waiter again.

Fluent.

Wait.

Also there is a declaration.

There is a usage.

Two parts are there.

So to declare the plane.

Uh, I will give you one syntax here.

We'll follow the same syntax.

Sede disadvantage is always there for every investment because if the timeout is got exceeded, no such

element you will get.

That's a disadvantage and little complex when you compare with implicit wait.

Explicit wait is a little complex okay.

Yeah.

So now let me show you about fluent wait.

So just like a explicit weight, fluent weight is also having declaration part and usage part.

So this is called declaration.

See how much it is.

This is called declaration.

This is called usage.

This is called usage.

This is called declaration of fluent weight.

Okay.

So this is syntax the provided in selenium website.

So if you directly go and search.

But selenium fluent waiter and directly checking their official website.

So this is syntax.

They have given same syntax I have copied.

So this is the declaration.

This is the usage right.

So we will try to understand what exactly it is.

So I will explain these options later.

And this is the actual usage.

First of all, let us try to use it in our automation.

Then I'll come and explain it what exactly it is.

The syntax is a little complex.

Yes.

It is designed in, uh, JavaScript actually.

So this part, whatever you can see, this is actually JavaScript part which is embedded in Java method.

So wait, uh, dot until till here.

This is Java method.

But inside this whatever they have created this part is called JavaScript.

They have executing JavaScript here internally.

Okay.

We will try to understand this whole thing.

So first of all let's go to eclipse and we'll create another example.

So I'm taking the same copy.

I'll call it as a don't give fluent weight as a name of the class, because fluent weight itself is

a predefined class.

So just add some demo something like this.

Or example something like this.

Implicit weight.

Explicit weight.

These are all predefined classes so you need to carefully use it.

So fluent weight.

Okay, I'm just trying to remove this.

So this is a plain code.

I have not added any weight statements here.

Just I'm launching the page maximizing and then I'm trying to interact with the element.

Okay.

Now how to use explicit weight.

First part is what?

Declaration?

Declaration.

So the declare the explicit waited.

This is a syntax provided by selenium guys.

So just copy paste from their website.

This is syntax.

So what we need to do is this wait is a predefined class which we need to import org dot open dot selenium

dot support dot ui.

This wait is an object.

Actually you can just change it if you want.

My wait.

And fluent.

Wait, just we need to import from org OpenCV selenium support dot ui.

And no such element exception.

Also we need to import.

And here the time they said right in the syntax.

So we need to specify this using duration class duration dot of seconds.

I can put some 10s and duration dot.

Duration dot.

Of seconds.

Of seconds, I can say.

Uh, two seconds.

Let me put I'll tell you what is this time at the end?

Everything okay?

So this is syntax.

Okay.

Still, it is giving an error.

So what it is saying is.

Fluent debater.

The input value to pass to the evaluated conditions is saying some parameters are incorrect.

Okay.

So we need to import the package correctly.

So otherwise it will give you an error.

Okay, so let me remove this for now.

Sorry guys, I have returned double times actually.

So duration lot of seconds.

It is just a ten.

Two times I have written.

Durations of off second.

This is to.

Okay, now import everything.

Client.

What imported weight is also imported?

Event duration.

Also, Java dot timer is also imported.

So this is called declaration.

I'll explain later.

So first let me show you how exactly it will work.

So this is called declaration.

So my weight is an object.

For what fluent weight.

My weight is an object of fluid weight.

So for that we need to use this one weight of WebDriver.

Of my weight equal to new fluent weight.

So what does this mean?

Fluent.

Wait is a class which is implemented wait.

Interface.

Wait is an interface.

Actually, it's not a class.

So wait is an interface.

The interface variable can hold the object of fluent.

Wait, so that's the reason they are created like this.

And we should not change this.

This is a syntax they have recommended.

Along with this they have put some more options.

We'll come to that part.

All right.

So this is a declaration but how to use it.

So I want to use this effluent weight for this element.

This is also specific to element.

Just like a explicit weight.

You have to keep this.

We have to apply this point weight for different type of elements.

Okay.

Now let us try to apply this for the element.

So for the application this is the syntax we have to use.

Okay, so I'll put this here.

So in this syntax this is actually a web element okay.

So let's say txt username I'm changing.

And this weight is what object of the weight.

So that I'm replacing.

Yeah, rest of them are fine.

So we need to import required things.

So web element we have to import.

And also the function.

Also we need to import from this.

See when I try to import the options, you need to choose the right one, otherwise you will end up

with the issues.

So the function class we have to import from com dot, google.com and dot base, which is also available

in Java.util dot function.

But we should not use this.

We should use this one com.google.com and dot base.

Right.

So here we have to specify the locator of the element.

So they have used by.id.

But here I can use XPath.

The locator can be anything.

So this is a XPath for the element.

And just I'm passing it.

You can remove this.

So even.

A finding the element is inclusive in fluent weight, just like explicit weight.

So this is the usage.

So this will finally return the web element here.

And once we get a web element and use the web element and perform the action send keys of.

Pass the username.

This is how we can use fluent weight.

Okay.

Let me execute first.

We'll see.

She.

This.

Yeah.

So now I've got some exception.

No such element.

Exception.

Unable to locate an element.

Placeholder username.

And we call this method.

So my wait until new function web element WebDriver return driver dot find element.

Let me put something here.

Return driver dot find element by dot XPath input holder okay.

Let me try to execute one more time.

To.

Okay.

Somehow it is not working.

Just a moment.

Some.

Okay, so we'll try now.

On motion.

There may be some syntax error.

My weight.

Dot until new function WebDriver web element.

The element apply WebDriver driver.

Return this element.

Okay.

Let me create a variable here.

Text.

User name.

So I'm just identified this element here and put here and then returning.

So find element is a part of this uh fluent.

Wait.

So here it is able to find this element.

Or you can put explicit wait directly.

So here you can put explicit wait.

But again.

It will become two weights in fluent and explicit weights, so you can directly put this data.

I don't see any change.

Okay, you guys can try this.

Let's see.

There is some problem.

Uh, maybe it will work for you.

You can just try this.

Or if it is not working, you can just try another type of uh, wait statement.

Okay, sometimes fluent wait will not work in that way.

So whatever we expected so you guys can try if it is working still, that is fine.

Otherwise you can try to use some other wait.

But this is the way of using the explicit, uh, fluent wait.

Okay, so let me explain what exactly it is and what are the things we have to specify.

And when you compare with explicit weight, what are the differences?

So in the fluent weight this is a declaration part.

In this we use something called fluent weight class.

And, uh, in the constructor, we're passing the driver.

Additionally, we pass some options here with the timeout polling and polling every and ignoring.

So don't try to understand the syntax because this is a little bit different and a little complex.

So no need to understand what exactly it is.

But we need to understand what are those options exactly how exactly these options works.

And also we need to understand something about this one.

So this is actually JavaScript method.

But internally they used a normal Java method.

Okay.

First let us try to understand this how exactly the mechanism of fluent.

Wait how exactly the fluent wait works?

Let me show you here.

Let us say, uh, I'm waiting for some element on the web page.

Okay.

Right?

Okay.

Look at this.

Let's say I'm waiting for some element on the web page.

It can be input box or button or link, whatever.

This is my element.

So what is this?

10s.

Is this is the maximum timeout?

Suppose if this element is, this particular thing is not returning web element.

How much time we should wait?

Maximum 10s we have to wait.

Maximum 10s.

Now, what is this time?

Polling every five seconds or polling every two seconds.

For example, I say two here.

What is this time?

Fluent weight will pull for this element for every two seconds.

That means maximum timeout is 10s.

That is fine.

But how exactly it will work is first it will hit the element.

First, it will hit the element.

If it is find, return the element.

If it is not find then next to two seconds it will again.

One more time it will hit.

If it is fine, return the element.

If it is not fine, then after two seconds again it will hit.

So for every two seconds of intervals it will keep hitting the element it is.

Keep trying to find the element within every two seconds interval up to 10s.

So if you take 10s is a maximum, how many times we can split this ten into two five times?

That means if it hit the element every two seconds intervals, how many times it will hit within 10s.

Five times.

It will hit okay.

Five times.

That's called polling time.

So polling time in the sense when I say 10s, it will not wait for 10s for every two seconds it will

hit the element it is trying to find the element, find that element, and as soon as it finds the element,

return it.

If it is not fine, then another two seconds it will hit, but it will not wait.

Maximum 10s.

If the element is not able to find then it will wait maximum 10s otherwise suppose in between.

If you find any element in between, then it will exit from the fluent.

Wait, so that's how it will work actually.

So that is called polling every two seconds or polling every five seconds.

So the entire time will be split into multiple parts or multiple intervals.

And in those intervals it will go and hit the element.

So that's how the fluent wait is designed.

Now the next one is ignore no such element exception.

Ignore no such element exception.

Sometimes when you're trying to hit the element within these intervals, two intervals every two intervals.

Suppose if the element is not available in first two interval.

Then it will throw some exception.

No such element.

Exception.

If it throws exception, no such element exception, it will not go to the next interval.

Right.

So to handle this problem, they have added one more option called ignoring no such element exception

dot class.

So what this will do is in every interval it will hit the element right.

Let's say 10s maximum timeout we have given.

Every two seconds intervals it will go and hit the element, but in the first second interval it will

hit.

The element is not found.

It will throw exception.

So this will automatically handle this exception and go and hit the second interval.

Again it throw exception.

Handle this again.

It will go to the next round and hit the exception like this.

It will do five times.

Suppose in five times five intervals.

Within 10s it is not able to find the element.

Then it will return the exception called no such element exception even in the fluent weight.

Also, there is a chance of getting no such element exception.

But what about this one?

Ignoring no such element is applicable within the intervals, but after 10s, if the no element is identified,

then only it will return the no such element exception for us.

But if the any interval it is got failed, then it will not throw any exception.

Even though it is throw exception, this will automatically handle that exception.

So these are the three options are provided in build one is maximum timeouts.

This is the interval timeout.

This is the exception which will automatically ignore during the intervals.

So these are three options are provided in the declaration part.

Now when you come to the execution part.

Here.

So when I say five means only two intervals, two times it will hit right?

Now come to this part.

So what exactly it will do my weight dot until until method is always return the web element when it

will return the web element.

If internal stuff is successfully executed, this part is executed.

Then it will return the web element.

If this internal stuff is not properly executed then it will return the exception.

No such element exception.

So once we get a web element, we can perform the action like this.

So in this again.

I can look at here.

So only this part is a Java method.

This part.

Public web element is a return type.

Name of the method is apply.

It will take driver as a parameter, and by using this driver instance, it is trying to find the element,

store the web element or return or return web element directly, or storing the web element in a variable

and returning the web element because we are returning the web element.

So the holding variable should be web element.

So this will try to find the web element and return the web element.

If the web element is available then we can perform the action.

Okay.

Sometimes the fluent weight will not give guarantee to identify the element.

Okay, so in that case you can directly go with the explicit weight.

So when you compare with explicit and fluent weight actually both are almost the same.

The only the difference is.

In the fluent wait, some additional options are added, like a timeout polling time ignoring exception.

So these things are additionally added in the fluent wait.

That's another difference.

And in explicit wait we put some conditions actually.

But in the fluent wait, we haven't put any condition just based on the timeout it will go and execute.

Okay, but sometimes it may not work after.

Sometimes if you try, it may work.

It may not work.

You can try multiple times.

So this will able to handle the.

Synchronization problem.

So this is a way of using explicit wait.

Again if you want to use this explicit uh, if you want to use this plane to wait for multiple web elements,

it is again, tedious task because you need to write this much of thing for every web element, for

one single element.

We have written like this.

And if you want to apply this synchronization for another element, you have to write the same thing.

You have to copy the same stuff and just change the element.

Okay so txt username.

My wait is a fluent wait object.

So here we created this.

Be fine.

So remember the syntax.

But among these weight statements implicit weight, explicit weight, fluent weight and thread dot sleep

for in this for most most popularly used one is implicit weight because that's more easier one time.

And there is one common problem in every type of weight statement.

What is the common problem?

What is the common problem in every weight statement?

One common problem is there.

Yes.

So this time is still.

Our assumption 10s is a maximum timeout.

That's a standard time.

So if the element is taking more than 10s, definitely that will throw an exception so that we should

handle through exception handling.

We need to put this entire stuff in the try block and continually write the catch block.

So all kinds of weird statements.

Whichever weight statement you have used, we should always use try catch block.

Exception handling must be there.

Okay.

And this is not this is only for intervals.

This, uh, this exception will ignore only during the intervals.

But finally, once all intervals are completed.

Element not found still.

Then this also will return the no such element exception.

Okay now.

Next one.

So duration of seconds.

The default duration of seconds.

The default value is always zero.

We need to put some time here and here.

Okay, so among these wait statement implicit wait is more preferable and next level is explicit wait

is also preferable because explicit wait.

Uh, works based on condition also right along with the time.

It is also works based on the condition.

So that will work more efficiently than implicit.

Wait fluent wait.

Also, you can use it, but it will increase the number of lines.

Code okay number of lines in the code it will increase just for one single statement.

You have written almost one function here.

So this is the entire function.

But some people what they will do, they will create one user defined method which include this entire

fluent.

Wait.

So whenever you want to find the element, whenever you want to put something synchronization problem,

they will call that method actually.

So that way they can try to reduce the code.

But still this is compared to other implicit weight or set dot sleep or any other weights.

Explicit weight.

This is a little complex than them.

Okay, so I recommend to use implicit weight at this point of time.

Once you're familiar with explicit and fluent point, then you can start using it.

And you don't need to understand much about the syntax because they have created exact the same way,

and they recommended to us to use the same syntax.

This is designed by own their own syntax.

Okay.

The implicit weight is always one.

So wherever you created a driver, if you put implicit weight there that is applicable for the entire

project, even if you created 100 test cases in every test case, you don't need to put implicit weight

because all the test cases will be driven from a single place.

That's called driver code.

Wherever your driver is got created, same driver will be used for all 100 test cases.

So if you keep implicit weight for the driver code one time, that is applicable for all the automation

test scripts.

So that is another benefit.

So for every test case we no need to do like this.

You will see that in the framework concept.

How we can, uh, achieve the reusability concept by using inheritance, how we can try to reduce the

code and code optimization part so that we will see in the framework concept.

Okay, so these are all comes under the weight commands or weight methods.

So.

Yes.

So this yeah this is element specific.

Right.

So if the element is specific that means you need to copy the same syntax for other elements and just

change the locator of that element.

Yes, you have to do it multiple times.

You need to copy it multiple times.

Okay, so now if I use two weight statements, two different type of weight statements in single code,

then what will happen?

Is there any advantage or not?

So we'll try to understand this.

Most many people will ask this question normally.

See, I have written some automation code.

And I put implicit weight here.

And I put maximum timeout in 10s.

And this implicit weight is applicable for every statement.

Okay.

Now here particular element is throwing an exception.

I put some another weight statement.

Okay.

For example I put explicit weight statement here.

Explicit statement is applicable for specific element, right?

Not for all elements.

Now which one will be considered and is there an advantage or is there any disadvantage of this?

When I use two different way statement in single code.

Syntactically there is no problem.

Syntactically you don't find any issues.

The script will execute as usual, no problem.

So you can still keep two way statement in single script, but there is no advantage of it.

Let me tell you what is a problem in this.

So implicit wait 10s maximum timeout is applicable for every element.

So if you come to this particular element, how many times it will wait according to the implicit wait,

how much of time it will wait according to the implicit wait 10s maximum 10s.

Now I also put explicit wait here.

I also put explicit wait according to the explicit wait.

Also, I just put 10s maximum timeout.

Let us say 10s maximum timeout for explicit wait.

Now, according to the implicit wait, it will wait for 10s so it will parallelly create one thread.

It will count one, two, three, four.

Like 10s, it will count parallelly because implicitly wait is applied on this.

Parallelly explicit wait is also applied on this 10s.

It will also count 12345 parallelly.

So these two threads will go parallelly.

Ultimately how many seconds it will wait here.

10s only.

Not 20s.

10s only.

I said parallelly, not serially.

So one two, three, four will counted from implicit weight one side, another side.

Explicit weight is also count one two, three, four, five another side.

Parallelly parallel threads.

So ultimately should not count to ten plus ten.

Ultimately you will get only 10s within 10s.

This thread will be completed within 10s only.

This will also completed.

But even though you apply two weight statements, ultimately you are waiting only 10s here.

In that case, there is no point of adding another weight statement.

You got the point.

Understood the point.

Suppose after counting the implicit wait time, then if explicit time will start, then it will become

20s right after completion of these 10s.

Then if it is started 10s then it will become 20s, but it will not do like that.

So implicit wait by default is applied.

It is started counting from 1 to 3.

Parallelly explicit.

Also you applied on the same statement.

So it is also parallelly counted 1 to 3.

So explicit wait also counted implicit wait is also counted.

Both are doing the their job parallelly.

Ultimately we will get only 10s only.

So that's the reason one wait statement is enough.

Okay.

That can be explicit or implicit.

It.

You understood my point?

Yes.

If the maximum time is not same, what would happen?

Okay, we will see that scenarios.

If the maximum time is not same, then what will happen?

See this written multiple statement again.

Same scenario.

Implicit.

Wait, let us say 10s.

Explicit wait is five seconds only.

Okay, implicit wait is 10s.

Explicit wait is five seconds.

Now there is a difference observed.

This is the statement which will throw exception causing the synchronization problem.

So as soon as it's reached here implicit wait 10s will applicable.

Right.

It will count from 1234 parallelly same time explicit wait is apply explicit for five seconds is applied.

It is also counted parallelly 12345.

Both are doing parallelly.

But the explicit wait will stop at five.

But implicit wait will still continue ten.

In that case also it will take maximum timeout 10s it will not add ten plus 515.

No, ultimately will get only 10s, but at the five seconds explicit wait is stopped here, but still

implicit wait is there right.

That will continue rest of the five.

So ultimately five seconds 10s it will take.

So this is why it will work.

Yes.

If the element is not found, obviously you need to put no such element exception.

But one try block is enough actually.

So one try block is enough.

Try catch block is enough because both are returning.

Same kind of exception.

Right?

No such element exception.

So it can be any type of.

Wait statement.

You should handle with the try catch block.

Okay.

So these are all very important scenarios, guys.

Uh, very good question.

So during interviews, people may ask you like this.

If I put multiple statement then what happens?

So you should able to answer.

I hope everybody is clear now.

So if you put multiple way statement, do we have any additional advantage?

No.

Unnecessarily the memory will be wasted internally.

Otherwise no advantage.

So one single weight statement is more than enough.

Okay, and which one is preferable is implicit.

Wait during interview, if anybody asks you, you can simply say implicit wait.

Most of the times will prefer or explicit wait.

Great white also works better, but it is not consistent.

Actually, it is not much stable.

So that's the problem.

All right.

So do this one round of practice and get familiar with this.

And tomorrow session we will discuss uh, some more commands.

Okay, so this is another scenario.

Suppose if the implicit wait time is lesser than explicit wait then what happens?

See third scenario.

Let's say implicit weight is just only five seconds, but explicit weight I put 10s.

Then what happens?

Anyone can.

Guess what will happen?

Okay.

So implicit weight is applicable on this five seconds.

It will count 1234.

It is 10s explicit wait is 10s.

It is also started 12345.

So as soon as it reached five, implicit wait will stop, but explicit wait is still continue up to

10s.

So ultimately we will get only 10s, whichever is maximum, it will consider that.

Okay.

If the implicit is implicit weight is higher number.

So implicit weight will consider at the end.

If the explicit weight is higher then explicit weight weight will consider.

Right.

Implicit way doesn't work.

Who said?

Implicit weight also will work.

Main method here if you want put implicit way, you can also put.

But there is no use.

That's the reason I'm saying.

Implicit weight.

If you want to keep here along with this fluent weight or explicit weight.

Syntactically, nothing is wrong.

You can still put it.

It will also work, but the time prospective it will consider whichever is higher time out that will

be considered.

So without a duration class, we cannot specify the time directly because they have created syntax like

this even in implicit wait.

Also.

Uh, if you just come back to the implicit wait.

Okay, so in implicit wait.

Or in explicit waiter fluent.

Wait.

Wherever you specify the time you have to use duration class, you cannot directly specify the time.

Just like in thread dot sleep, we specify time, right?

No, because the implicit wait is expecting some parameter.

Expecting the prior parameter duration class.

You can see this is how the designed this method.

So accordingly we have to follow.

A simple logic if any method is got created by somebody else, if that method is expecting two parameters,

we have to pass two parameters.

If the method is expecting one parameter, then we have to pass one parameter.

If the method is expecting integer value, then we have to pass integer value only, right?

Similarly, this implicit weight method is expecting duration of method of seconds method.

So that's the reason we are passing the time along with this method.

Actually, this method internally calling another method, we are basically calling this half seconds

method that is taking one parameter and this will return duration class object.

So that object is accepted by implicit weight method.

So that's the overall meaning of this entire statement.

Yes, there is no meaning of writing two different type of statements.

Not at all.

You already seen that example, right?

So by understanding that there is no use of putting multiple types of statements, just follow throughout

the entire project.

Follow one approach.

Right.

So just do one round of practice on this.

And tomorrow session, uh, we will see.

Uh, and one more thing is, guess I forgot to tell.

Uh, one more page timeout.

So suppose I don't want to use all this because, uh, flint weight is element specific.

And, uh, explicit weight is also element specific.

We need we need to put some condition on elements.

And implicit weight is fine because this is taking care of, uh, loading the pages and also taking

care of the elements both.

So there is another option, is there.

And uh, this is the driver dot manager timeouts page load time.

Here we can specify the time actually.

So this is a old syntax.

Let me show you.

So this we can use it actually.

Okay, so for example.

And this is applicable only for page loading.

Not specific to element okay.

Let me give you another example.

Small example.

Page load time demo.

And just like a, uh, implicit weight immediately you can instead of implicit weight, you can use

this as an alternative.

Okay.

Uh, let me copy the code.

Right.

So I just remove this implicit weight.

Okay, so instead of that, you can say.

Driver dot.

Manage dot.

Timeouts.

Dot.

Here we have a page load timeout.

Page load timeout.

Here we can specify the timeout using again duration class duration dot.

Of seconds.

You can just put five seconds.

So this will also solve.

And this is only for page loading.

Okay.

But suppose element is taking some time to load.

Then again it will become problem.

So this is only for page loading.

It will wait till the page is loaded completely but indirectly.

Pages.

When we will say page is loaded completely.

As soon as all elements are loaded, then only we can say page is loaded completely, right?

So this is another option which we have.

Let's execute and see.

Still it is not working.

Probably this is element specific, not related to page loading.

Element specific.

Right.

So it is also throwing no such element exception.

So.

But some pages it will work.

Some pages may not work, so this is also optional.

Available here.

So this will wait till the page is loaded.

But even though the pages got loaded, still we are getting an exception.

Let's try to increase the timeout and see.

So five seconds.

Yeah.

Now we can see it is working now.

Let me save it.

See even multiple times.

You need to run guys, then it will work properly.

Let me run one more time.

No, this time it won't work.

Yeah.

So sometimes it's working.

Sometimes it is not working.

Let me close all the browsers.

So this is also you can try.

Uh, it's basically page load option.

I'll try one more time.

Five seconds.

Let me put 10s.

I'm not working.

You guys can try.

So sometimes it works, sometimes it may not work.

So that's the reason we don't, uh, stay with only one option.

So that's the reason selenium most of the times provided multiple options.

Even the locators part also.

So whichever is applicable, whichever is properly working, you can try to use it and solve the problem.

So these are the different ways to solve the synchronization problem especially in selenium.

Right.

So this is also other option which is available.

So better to keep this regularly along with uh maximizing the page rate.

At the same time you can also try to put this.

And suppose if some times if it is taking more time to load pages.

So this will work.

But in this case this is required element specific implicit weight.

Anyway, it is working, but element specific is also required.

Right.

So I'll stop here for today's session.

And tomorrow's session.

We will continue.