So in the today's session we'll see how we can validate response.
So in the last class we have understood what is JSON and what is JSON path right.
So if you want to capture any data from the response.
So we need to write a JSON path.
So we can extract the data from the JSON response using JSON path.
So that is very important when you add validations on response.
So normally what are the different type of validations we do on the response.
So we will verify the status code.
We will verify the cookies headers and response body time.
And there are a lot of other things we need to validate okay.
So for that what I will do is first of all I have already created some new collection which is again
same student APIs.
Whatever we have created in the last class, same student APIs, all different request, I have created
another one, so I just rename it.
Student API response validation.
So today is day three.
Okay.
So in this I have a different type of student request.
Get single student.
Get all students data.
Creating new student.
Updating existing student and delete the student.
So I'll also start running my student API locally.
And then we will start discussing about uh validations response validations.
So let me go to my uh, JSON file.
So where I have kept here inside my automation files JSON file.
So here I have my students dot JSON file.
So let me start this.
So in the last class we have seen how to start our local API.
So same thing I'm doing.
So what is the command we have to execute to run our local API JSON hyphen server.
Right.
So you need to remember a single command because we already installed NodeJS npm, everything is there.
Just we need to run single command along with the JSON file path.
So JSON hyphen server and provide the name students dot JSON.
And once you enter this command it is started your API.
Now it will show you the end point.
So by using this URL we can access all your APIs.
Now let me minimize it.
And now let's go to the postman.
Now I'm just running a single request.
I'm just trying to get the ID of the student.
One single student.
Let's execute and send.
Now I got the response here.
So as soon as you see the response we need to do different type of validations.
So as of now we are able to see response payload.
This is the actual response in JSON format.
And also you can see status code okay.
And time in milliseconds size of the data.
And uh here you can see you don't see anything because this is a Get request.
We are not passing any request body.
So along with this, if I look at here there are no cookies.
But actually when you run this API through internet.
So definitely will get certain kind of cookies here.
So we can also validate those cookies and header information.
Also we can validate.
So here you can see there are different keys.
And value pairs are generated along with the response.
So we can validate this.
Like for example content type we can validate connection type.
We can validate content length.
We can validate.
So these details we can validate okay.
So we'll see how we can do these type of validation.
And finally we can also validate the response.
Body means what in body what we can verify.
We can verify the data types.
For example here ID is in string format.
Name is in string format.
Again courses is an array format.
And this is all entire thing is JSON object type.
So the data types Also we can verify.
Also we can verify the individual data.
For example name John is respondent.
So John is correct or not.
The phone number is correct or not.
The array elements are correct or not.
So individual data.
Also we can verify and apart from that we can also verify the schema.
That is another most important.
So I'll discuss about that.
What is schema JSON schema how we can validate all those things.
Okay.
So these are the basic elements which we have to validate for every type of a response.
And it will be different from type of request especially when you send a Get request.
These many things we need to validate because response is also part of it.
So we need to more focus on the response validation.
But when you send delete request or Post request.
So normally we don't get much response here.
Just we will just get some confirmation message.
So we do certain validations like status code time and headers, cookies and everything.
But we no need to validate more on body response body, but when I send a get request, server will
respond with the data.
So we need to add more number of validations on the response body also.
Okay, so now how we can add all the validations.
So to add validation scripts we have a separate top tab here called scripts.
You can see that.
So in postman there are two kinds of scripts supported.
One is pre request.
Another one is post response.
Pre request is nothing but what whenever you send some request.
Whenever you are sending some request before sending the request to the server.
If you want to execute certain things and you can put such type of scripts inside the pre request so
that we will see tomorrow session and post response is nothing but what here we actually add validation
scripts because when we will do validations, once the request is successful then we will start doing
the validation.
That means a post to response means what?
Once you get a response on top of response, we will add validation scripts.
So before we need to go to the script tab here under the scripts you can see two types of scripts p
request and post response.
Now to add validations where we need to add inside the post response.
If I click here currently there is a window open window.
Nothing is there.
So here we need to write all the validation part okay.
So by default postman support JavaScript.
By default postman support JavaScript.
If you know very well about JavaScript you can use postman it very well, very effectively you can use.
But even if you don't know JavaScript, just try to understand some basic stuff.
I'm going to teach you how we can add validations using JavaScript, and step by step we will see all
validations we can do.
Very simple, very easy to do that.
Also, I will share some document which contains all the validation points and whenever it is required.
Wherever it is required, you can just copy paste those validation points and that will do the validations.
Okay, so this is the place where we can add all the validation points.
So now let us discuss how we can add validations in JavaScript.
Okay.
So normally if I go back to any programming language like suppose when you're working with the selenium.
So we use something how we can add assertions in selenium.
Selenium testing how we will add assertions, how we will add assertions like suppose we use selenium
plus Java combination.
So if you want to add validations in selenium WebDriver.
So how we can add validations, assertions from where we will get assertions from where we will get
assertions assertions use testing right.
We use some framework testing framework or some people will use JUnit framework.
So whenever you want to add some assertions or validation, we will take the help of some built in framework.
It can be testing or it can be JUnit.
Or suppose people are using some C sharp, so then they can use something called n unit.
This is another type of framework.
So from that we can add assertions.
Suppose the people using some Python.
So then we will take another framework called py test.
So by from the py test we get the assertions.
So any programming language if you take there is a corresponding framework is available in the market.
So we will take the all assertions from that the type of frameworks.
Similarly Python basically support JavaScript okay.
So not only Python any other frameworks.
Suppose in automation whether.
Suppose if you go with the playwright or if you go with the cypress.
Also mostly they use JavaScript or TypeScript.
So whenever you work with these type of languages JavaScript and TypeScript there is a special framework
is available called Chai framework.
So the framework name itself is called Chai framework.
Or we can say Chai library.
So this is provided all kinds of assertions.
This chai library provided all types of assertions.
So a postman by default support chai library assertions.
Okay.
So in that particular assertions these are the assumptions we have to capture from the Chai library.
We need to add them into our different type of request.
Even get request, post put or delete whatever.
Okay so how we can add validations.
How we can write validations using chai library.
So that first we need to understand and then we will come back and add different type of assertions
one by one.
So I'll share a small document later with you so you guys can go through this.
First, we will try to understand how we can add validations to the postman request.
So as I said by default postman support Chai library or Chai assertion library.
So the syntaxes will be different.
So you should not compare these syntaxes with your Java or Python.
Anyway, these syntaxes are totally different.
So if I look at here we can add validations in Chai library two different formats using function syntax
we can use or by using arrow function you can use.
So normally in JavaScript this is the syntax we use to create a function in JavaScript language.
We will use this function or we will use this syntax to create a function.
For example, let's say because Python is acquired everything from the child library, they are given
some package name called PM.
PM is representing postman okay because they have already integrated child library suits and everything
into postman itself.
So every function we need to start with a PM.
PM is representing postman.
Okay, now you can say PM dot test.
So test is a keyword.
So whenever you add some test, test is nothing.
But what a validation.
So we need to add this method PM dot test in the bracket.
Here we can specify the test name.
So what kind of test we are going to do or what kind of validation we are going to do that you can put
in the double quotations function is a keyword.
So whenever you write a function that should open with open bracket and close bracket and starting brace
and ending brace and whatever bracket we open here, we need to close the bracket here.
And semicolon.
So actual syntax is like this case.
I have put in single statement pm dot test, pm dot test.
The first parameter is a test name comma.
Second parameter is we need to write some function name.
So function is a keyword.
You should not give any name here okay.
Function is a keyword.
We have to use same name here.
You should not give any other name function And this function we have to implement in the curly braces.
And this bracket is closed here.
And semicolon end with the semicolon.
This is the actual syntax.
Okay.
We have to follow this syntax in JavaScript to write a function.
And this is basically the test function.
Or we can say test method, test function or test method.
And this is the old format.
So PM dot test test name function bracket.
And here we will add assertions.
So we have a special class called uh expect special method called expect.
So by using this special method we will add all assertions inside the function okay.
So if I look at this there are two ways we have.
So this is the first approach.
This is the second approach.
In the first approach this is the syntax PM dot test test name function.
And here we will add all assertions.
Second approach is by using arrow function.
This is more advanced approach.
The latest trending approach.
again.
Same kind of syntax.
PM dot test.
Test name.
Here we use function keyword.
But here we don't use any keyword.
And after the bracket we use arrow mark here.
So this only part is different.
Rest of the things are exactly the same.
So here we use function bracket.
Here we use bracket arrow and followed by curly brace.
And here we will add assertion.
So this is called as arrow function.
This is called arrow function even in advanced Java Java uh after Java 12.
Also these kind of syntaxes are supported even JavaScript it is already there.
Arrow functions are there.
But in Java we call them as a lambda functions.
Lambda expressions okay.
So the syntax in Java also we have.
But there that is not much important.
But here by default Java library we follow the same syntax.
Right.
So these are the two different ways we can add validation.
Either we can go with this one or we can go with this one.
But most of the times we use the second approach because this is the latest approach, even postman
documentation.
Also you can see the arrow methods so you don't see this approach.
This is a very old one and you can use it.
It will work but everything is same.
Whatever assertion we added here also we can add assertion, but the syntax is different which is called
as an arrow function.
Okay.
So now we'll see how we can validate different things in the response one by one.
So first where we have to start validating the status code how we can verify the status code.
So to verify the status code we have three different type of validations.
We can do three different type of test.
We can add.
Suppose if you want to verify the exact status code suppose I'm expecting 200 is a status code.
So then what you can do you can write method like this PM dot test.
And here the test name status code I'm expecting 200.
So this is a state test name.
You can put here arrow function.
and pm dot response dot.
This is actual assertion method which comes from the library.
PM dot response .2. have status 200 okay.
PM dot response two dot have dot status 200.
If you add this assertion method, this will verify the status code is 200 or not.
If the status code is 200, this will pass.
If the status code is not 200, it will fail.
So this is a one way we can do.
If you know exact status code, you can put like this.
Suppose I want to verify.
Suppose I don't know exact status code, but I want to verify my status code may be two zero 1 or 2
zero 1 or 200.
I don't know exactly, but I have certain status codes.
But my status code, expected status code should be one of the status codes.
In that case, what we can do, we can slightly change this.
We use something called expected.
But here we are exactly expecting same status code, but here PM or not expect in the expect method.
First we need to capture the status code from the response.
How to capture the status code from the response pm dot response dot code.
So this will actually return the status code from the response and that response code to be to be one
of two zero 1 or 2 zero two.
Basically this is an array.
So now if the if my response code is 200 then it will it pass or not.
The test method will pass or not.
If my status code is 200, no, it will not pass what we are expecting here two zero 1 or 2 zero two
we are expecting.
So sometimes when you send a Post request especially, sometimes you will get 201.
Sometimes you may get 202.
So possibilities are there.
So that is the reason we include both.
So the status code might be 201 or it can be 202.
Anything is fine.
So then my test should pass.
In that case you can put multiple status codes.
Especially this is applicable for post responses.
But when you send get response get request most get request always return 200 is a status code.
There is no other code.
But when you send Post request you may get 201, or sometimes you may get 202.
So if you want to specify multiple status codes, then you can use this method.
So this is the one thing the first method is for what specific exact status code we have to specify.
And here we can specify multiple status codes.
And even one is got matched that will pass.
My test method will pass okay.
Now the third one.
Sometimes when you create some request or when you send some post request, the resource will be created
in the server.
So in that case, along with the status code, you will also get some message called created.
Okay.
Right.
So such type of messages also you will see for example if I go back to the postman.
See here not only 200 you can see some other message called okay that's called text status code text
okay.
And the text also we can verify if I look at the first here, here and here we just specify only status
code.
But if you want to verify the message associated with the status code, in that case we can add another
assertion called response dot to have dot status created.
Or if it is a Get request we can say okay.
So in this in this particular case there is a okay here.
So we can validate the text which is associated with the status code.
So these are the three different methods we can add to verify the status codes of the response.
Okay.
So now let me show you these are the only three methods which we have to verify the status code.
Let us try it practically.
Let's go to postman now.
I'm sending the get request here.
So I got some response.
But I want to verify the status code is 200 okay or not?
Then what we can do?
We need to go to the scripts post response.
And here we need to add that particular method.
So let me add that method.
What I'm expecting here 200 I'm expecting.
So I just added here PM dot test status code should be 200.
I'm expecting arrow function pm dot response dot two have status is 200.
So let me try to send the request.
Now observe what will happen.
So previously we were not able to see any results here because we haven't added any validation point.
But now if I send this request just observe what happens along with the body response.
In the test results you can see something called past see status code is 200 which has got past.
Suppose I'm just giving some invalid status code 201.
When I send this, this has got failed.
So why it is failed?
Because we have given actually is 200, but we have given 201 which is not matched.
Okay.
So simply we can verify the status code like this.
Suppose I want to verify the status code along with this message okay.
Is there.
So that message also I want to verify.
So then what we can do we can also add another one.
So this is the method which we can add.
This will verify the status code message which is associated.
So what is the status message here okay.
Which is case sensitive.
Just specify that status code name has string.
String is nothing.
But here okay.
Now let me run this.
So M is not defined.
Sorry P is missing here pm dot test PM dot test.
So let me run this again.
So now we can see.
The second thing is also passed because the status code is also associated with the okay.
Right.
So this is how we can verify the status code.
In case suppose if you want to specify multiple status codes then you can use this method.
So suppose you are expecting two zero 1 or 2 zero two.
You can specify that.
So let me add this also multiple status codes.
So in this you can specify.
So what is the status code.
We are expecting 200.
We are expecting.
And other than this there is no 2012024 Get request.
But especially if it is a Post request we can add.
Suppose even if I give 1201 then what happens?
Will it pass or not?
I say 202 zero one.
So what is the status code we are expecting actually 200.
So 200 is a part of this array.
So definitely it should pass.
Right.
So let me send this.
Now it has got passed.
So successful get request.
So like this we can also specify multiple status codes.
So these are the three methods which we can use to verify the status code along with the text okay.
Now let us move on to the next element.
So is this clear everyone.
So how to validate the status code along with the status message.
So these are the only three methods are available.
So these are comes from Chai Library.
You can just use it.
So any type of any type of request even it is a Get request post request update whatever it is request
the first focus is on status.
Code should be validated.
So you can use these three methods to verify the status code.
Okay, so now I have added three different validation points.
Now when I send this request I got the result here.
Under test results I have added three validations and all three are got passed.
Okay.
So now let us move on to the next one.
So after status code, what is the next thing important headers part headers.
Also we need to validate so how we can validate headers.
What is a header.
First of all what is an header.
So whenever you send response whenever you send a request.
So we'll get a response.
So along with the response we will get some kind of headers.
The header is basically describing the response what kind of content it is, how much size it is, in
which language it is responded.
So all the details we can find in the headers.
So which is also very important component which we need to verify as part of our API response.
So now we'll see how we can validate headers.
There are two important things we can validate.
First thing first of all the header actually how headers will be created in which format.
If I look at the headers here key and value pair.
So in normally in Java we can see key and value pairs right.
So even headers also follow the same format key corresponding value.
Now if I look at this there is a content type.
What is this?
Actually this is a key.
And what is the value of this content type application slash JSON.
So what exactly it is representing this is representing the response.
Whatever we captured here is in JSON format.
So that is actually representing here and rest of them.
So for example time out and how much content size.
So there are other types of keys and values are there in the headers.
So we can verify all these things.
But most of the times few things we will validate mandatory.
One is content type.
We will validate.
That's the first thing.
Second thing is content length.
Also we will validate sometimes content length.
Also we will validate.
So how we can validate.
First of all I want to check the content type itself is a part of header or not.
Okay, in the header I want to verify the content type is exist or not.
After that I will verify the value of the content type.
Similarly, first I will check the content length is exist or not as part of header.
It is there or not.
If it is present then I will verify the size the value of the content length okay.
So there are two methods are available two test methods.
One is we can verify particular key is available in the headers or not.
Second is we can verify the value of particular header.
Okay.
So for that we have a two methods.
The first method check if the header is present or not.
So for that what you can do again same arrow function pm dot test content type header is present.
This is the test.
Simple description.
You can put whatever you want.
Arrow function and how we can put the assertion here.
PM dot response.
So always remember.
Ponds.
PM dot response is always representing the response.
Whatever response we capture from the server that is actually represented by PM dot response to have
header.
And what is the value we are.
What is the key we are expecting in the header content type so that you can specify.
Similarly for example I'm expecting here content type.
Is there content length I'm expecting.
Then what you can do the content length you need to specify here instead of content type.
So this will verify this key is a part of header or not.
If it is there then it will pass or else it will fail.
Suppose I want to verify the value of the header value of the header.
For example, let's say content type is there.
So what is the value of the content type here.
Application slash JSON.
So this is the value of content type.
So how we can verify that you can simply write.
First we need to capture the response.
So just look at this 1 p.m. dot response headers from the headers.
Get what is get here.
Get off content type in HashMap.
We have this method.
Actually in the HashMap there is a key and a value right?
How we can extract the value by passing the key.
So when you pass a key in the get method that will return the value.
Same thing.
It is used here, so get off key.
This is a key actually.
So what this internal part will return.
It will return actual value of the particular key.
Remember this.
So PM dot response headers dot get.
So this is one single part.
So what this will return.
This will return the value of content type so that we are comparing with our expected value.
Comparing how we can compare these this to by using pm dot expect assertion.
So what is the value you're expecting application slash JSON.
Sometimes you can.
It will also show you care set.
So if it is also part of this care set that is also you need to specify or else not required.
Okay this is the one way we can do that.
I'll show you these first two.
Then we will go with the next one.
So how we can verify the headers.
Now go back.
So now I want to verify the content type is exist or not.
So for that what you can do I can add one more validation here.
And can you see the font everyone.
Or do you want to maximize it right.
I just maximize can you see the font.
Yes.
So now I'm just going to add one more test to verify the content type is there or not.
So how we can verify the content type is present or not.
Simply we can add one more assertion here pm dot test Content-Type header is present or not.
I want to verify so arrow function pm dot response to have header content type.
It should be exactly.
We need to specify because this is the case sensitive.
Okay.
Now this will verify the content type is present inside the keys or not okay.
Now I also want to verify the content length.
So then what you can do you can add one more method here.
One more statement here.
Because most of the times we don't add two verifications in single method that is not recommended.
This is not an error but that is not recommended.
So what I will do?
What is the problem if I add another one here?
Can you tell me what is the problem?
Suppose if I add like this.
Here also I will put content hyphen length.
So do you have any problem in this?
So do we have any problem when you add these 2 in 1 single method?
So syntactically there is no problem.
But the problem is suppose when you run the test or when you run the request, suppose the first one
is got passed.
Second one is failed.
Then what happened?
The whole method will fail.
Similarly, the first one is got failed.
Second one is passed.
In that case also the whole method is got failed.
So we cannot validate these two separately.
That is the reason.
So we can include another one.
So what I will do is I will try to create one more method right.
So inside this I will put content length I just try to remove this.
And here I will put content type in one method content length in another method okay.
This is content type.
So in the second I am verifying content length.
Content length I am verifying content length header is present or not I am I'm verifying here and content
type is present or not.
I'm verifying here two verification points and once we execute it then we will see how to verify the
value.
Now I'm sending this request.
Now I can go back and see test results.
So content type header is present.
Content length header is also present perfectly fine.
Now I want to verify the data.
Also content type along with the data.
Also I want to verify.
In that case we need to add one more method.
This is the one.
So PM response headers get the content type.
So this will actually return the value.
And that we are comparing with application slash equal method.
We have to use two dot equals method we have to use.
So let me add this method.
This is for what value check.
Value check I'm just added this.
So PM dot test content type header is application slash JSON.
This is the value I'm expecting.
So in arrow function what I have done here pm dot expect.
PM dot response dot headers dot get content type.
This has to be equal to what I try to reduce the font.
Yeah.
So do we have this care set UTF eight in the headers.
No right.
We don't have that.
Only application slash JSON is there.
So let us try to remove this rest of the part.
If it is a part of it you should add.
Otherwise you can just remove it.
So this is the validation point.
So first we are extracting the value of that particular key.
Then we are comparing with the application slash JSON okay.
Now you can see that.
So UTF eight UTF is nothing.
But it will basically representing the character set.
Character set.
Every response is having some character set.
So especially when you send the request in the internet, web applications or web APIs, you will also
get the care set along with the content type, it will also representing the care set equal to UTF eight.
So normally we have a different type of care set like UTF eight, UTF 16, UTF 24.
Different type of care sets are there.
So that is basically representation of the text.
Okay.
So in but in the desktop application you don't see this character set.
But in the internet application especially web applications, sometimes in the response along with application
slash JSON, you can also see this which is also part of the content type.
So in that case we can include this.
Otherwise you can ignore it.
Right.
So now I have just added application slash JSON content type is application or slash JSON is correct
or not.
So execute this.
Send the request again go to test results.
Now you can see Content-Type header is application slash JSON perfectly correct.
Suppose I'm expecting applications slash text.
But what is the actual value of the content type is JSON.
But what I'm expecting here text.
So when I send this, definitely it will fail.
So we are expecting text but it is returning JSON.
So which is got failed.
So this is the way we can verify the value of the key which is a part of headers.
Now there is one more test method we can add for headers.
What it is.
Suppose let's say in the value there is a big value is there.
Suppose if I look at this application slash JSON and even care set equal to UTF eight is there.
Sometimes it may be UTF 16, sometimes it may be UTF 24.
You are not expecting that.
You cannot expect that dynamically you are getting that UTF value or cassette value.
So then what we can do we can use this include method.
So when I use equal method the value should be exactly same.
Same value we are expecting.
Exact accurate value we need to specify.
Specific value we need to add.
But when you say include, rest of the part is same.
PM dot expert pm dot response dot headers.
Get content type to include.
If it is equal, you need to specify the exact value, but if it is a include, you can specify some
portion of the value.
You don't need to write the complete value.
Even you can simply specify application.
That is fine, just specify JSON.
That is also fine.
Okay, so you can no need to pass the complete value.
You can just pass some part.
That's it include.
So this is also additional method you can add along with the existing methods.
Right.
So these are the three test methods which are available to validate headers.
Header is nothing.
But what in which format headers will be created.
Key and value pairs.
Key and value pairs.
So is this clear?
Everyone please confirm in the chat box.
So far we have seen two things.
One is verifying the status codes verifying the headers.
Now the third part.
Verifying the cookies.
How we can verify the cookies, especially when you run your APIs in internet.
So currently we are accessing the local API.
But when you are trying to access the API which comes from the internet, then cookies will be generated
automatically.
Cookies will be generated automatically.
So those cookies we need to validate.
So normally how exactly cookies.
What is cookie means.
Anybody is having any idea what is cookie cookies.
Remember the information or it will remember some details whenever you browse some URL, whenever you
some send some request.
And whatever the response we are getting, it will remember the response is a temporary file.
It will be created the temporary data.
It will internally maintain that that's called cookies basically.
So the cookie values are dynamic in nature.
Most of the times you won't get the static data.
Most of the times you will get the dynamic data in the cookies.
So what are the validations we can do on the cookies?
So for example we can do multiple ways.
For example, let's say just like a header header is present or not we can verify.
We can verify the value of the header.
Similarly we can verify cookies present or not.
Also we can verify the value of the cookie.
We can verify the value of the cookie.
So first of all let us verify whether the cookie is present or not.
So then what we can do we can add this method PM dot test.
And let's say there is a cookie got created called language.
And cookie is also created in the key and value pairs just like a headers key and value pairs right.
Similarly, cookies also will be created in the form of key and value pairs.
So here we need to specify this is just a test method.
So I'm just verifying the language cookie is exist or not.
The cookie name itself is a language so PM dot expect.
PM dot cookies has language.
So what this will do.
This will actually return the cookie which is having name called language.
And that should be true.
We are expecting true means what this cookie is present or not.
We are verifying, but in the second one what we are verifying.
We are verifying the value of the cookie.
So expect PM dot cookies from all the cookies.
We are getting the exact cookie value.
That should be equal to this one.
So in the first test method we are verifying the cookie present or not.
And the second method we are verifying the value of the cookie.
So here the language is a cookie name Ian.
And hyphen GB is a language or the value of the cookie which is created, which is part of the response.
So these are the two methods which we can use to verify the cookie.
So as of now for our API.
There are no cookies are created.
So even if you add these two test methods, definitely they will fail.
But still, let us try to add because in the coming sessions I will show you so many real time APIs,
so then it will be useful for you.
So this is a verify.
This will verify the cookie.
The name is language I have given which is exist or not.
And the second test method will verify the language value is in hyphen GB or not.
Okay.
So let me run these two also along with other assertions.
So definitely we are expecting these two should be failed because there are no cookies are created as
part of the response.
So let me send this.
Now you can see test results.
See.
Now we can see these two are got failed because the language there is no cookies or got created.
But if the cookies are created here then these two will be passed.
Okay, so this is how we can verify the cookies.
Only two metres cookie presence and the value of the cookie.
Same thing for header also.
Header presence or value of the header we can verify or the header value contains something.
If you want to verify you can do that.
Another method is there.
So these are the test methods we can use to validate cookies.
And the next one response time how we can verify the response time.
So where we can see the response time in the request.
So where we can see the response time.
So this is the response data where we can see the response time.
Here you can see.
So eight milliseconds it is showing right.
So 7.47 milliseconds.
So this is actually response time.
Now I want to validate this.
Can we uh can we expect the exact value of the response time.
Can we expect can we exact value of the response time.
No we cannot expect.
We cannot specify exact name of the response time, but we can specify the nearby value.
So for example, whenever I send some request, I want to get the response within five milliseconds.
Or I want I'm expecting the response within 10s so that we can expect okay, but exact time we cannot
expect because it depends on number of factors, the speed of the internet, speed or size of the data.
Also, if the size of the data is very huge, response time automatically reduced even if the internet
speed is less.
Automatically response time is reduced.
So we cannot expect exact value of the response time, but we can expect some range.
So for example, within 10s I should get the response.
Then if I get the response within five seconds my test passed, or if I get the response within 10s
then my test pass.
So in that way we can put validation point.
So to verify the response time of the response we can put like this.
So I can say check response time is below the threshold.
Suppose here 200.
I mentioned okay so 200.
I mentioned PM dot response dot response time to be below.
Below is a method.
So here you can specify maximum timeout.
If the response is coming before this timeout then your test will pass or else it will fail.
Okay so let us add this point validating response time.
Let's go back to postman.
Now currently it is giving eight milliseconds.
Okay we'll try this.
Okay.
So before that what I'll try to do is let us try to run the request multiple times.
So then we will take some average timeout.
Sometimes it may take seven 8 or 10 something like this.
So add this later.
First of all I'll check the status how much time it is taken.
So five five milliseconds it is taken this time.
Now four milliseconds it is taken.
Nine milliseconds.
It is taken three milliseconds.
See?
It is all.
Every time it is varying.
So four milliseconds.
But every time you are getting within ten milliseconds only.
Right?
Maximum.
It is not exceeding ten milliseconds.
So I will put maximum ten milliseconds.
Let's say ten.
But if it is a.
Suppose if it is real APIs, when I hitting the request through internet, it will take more than 100
seconds or take some time.
So 10s maximum time I put here below 10s.
If I get the response then my test is passed.
So that's how I put.
So 200 is milliseconds.
Actually 200 milliseconds is nothing.
But what two seconds?
Right.
So that means here how much I should specify here.
Okay.
Let us try to run this.
sea.
One has got failed, not failed.
So response time is less than 200 milliseconds.
So it is actually time ten milliseconds okay.
So ten is representing a milliseconds.
So you can see milliseconds five milliseconds.
We got.
So the request is successfully passed.
The last one is passed again I'm running it.
So now you can see this time it has got failed.
Why it has got failed.
Because the response time is taking more than 10s.
Now it is taking 30 milliseconds, but we specified only ten milliseconds below ten milliseconds.
So this time it has got failed.
And one more time I will run.
See?
This time again it is passed.
So we we got the response within four milliseconds, but we specified ten is sufficient.
So we can specify the approximate number.
But exact number you cannot specify because this is more dynamic okay.
So this is how we can verify the response time even in the requirement.
Also, you won't get the exact time, they will just specify the time within.
This is a minimum time.
This is a maximum time.
So that's how they will tell you this is a part of the requirement.
So that is the response time.
So for whatever validations we have done these are all static validations means what whatever the postman
is retrieving for example status code time and headers cookies.
So these are all static data we are verifying.
Now we will focus more on the body.
So this we need to validate.
This is the actual thing we need to validate right.
So to verify the response body we have to know the JSON path okay.
So there are multiple things we need to verify in the response body.
So first thing we need to verify the whole the response is a JSON object or not that we can verify.
And we can also verify the data type, for example id string or not.
The location is also string or not.
The courses value is array or not.
We can verify that and apart from that we can verify the data.
So name is John or not.
Location is India or not.
So multiple validations.
The whole object JSON is not.
We can verify the type of the data.
We can verify the field values.
Also we can verify by writing a JSON path.
We can verify the data of the particular field location data name data courses data.
Also we can verify.
So let's see how we can verify the response body.
So first thing to verify the response body.
Let us say this is our sample response.
So as of now when I send this request the same response I copied here.
So this is the response we captured.
Now what are the things we need to verify in this response.
If I look at this.
First of all, the first validation is I want to verify the data type of each and every field value
type I want to verify.
For example id is integer or string, name string or not location string or not.
Phone number.
String or not.
Courses.
Array or not.
I want to verify the type of the field data type of the field.
Okay, now if I look at the entire thing what is this actually object type.
Right.
This whole thing curly brace starting point curly brace ending point.
So what it is called actually this is all one object.
So I will first verify whatever response I captured here is object or not JSON object or not.
So how we can verify that PM dot.
First we need to capture the response.
This is most important.
So whatever response we capture, whatever response we got it from the API.
We need to capture the response into a variable, we need to create one variable and the whole response
we have to store in that variable.
So for how to capture the response from the postman PM dot response dot JSON.
Remember this is very very important method.
So PM dot response dot JSON method will return the response and store that response in a variable.
See this method will actually capture the response from the postman itself.
Storing into the variable.
In JavaScript, whenever you create a variable, that variable we can create using a var keyword, or
we can use const keyword.
So when I create a variable with a var keyword, the value we can always change the values is always
varies.
Suppose tomorrow.
If you want to change the value of the variable, you can change.
But if we create a variable with the const keyword.
You cannot change the value of the variable in JavaScript especially.
Okay, so pm dot response dot JSON will return the entire response body into JSON data variable.
So this.
This is just a variable name.
You can put whatever name you want right now from the JSON data here.
PM dot expect JSON data dot to be an object.
What does it mean?
Whatever JSON data we captured from the response should be an object JSON object that we are validating
in the first part.
Okay, now the second part.
Suppose here what is the type of this name?
What is the type of this name string.
Right.
This is basically string.
Now I want to verify this name field is string type or not string type or not.
Okay, now how we can extract this name from this entire JSON object?
Let's say this is whole thing I have stored in JSON data variable.
So the whole thing is a part of JSON data.
Now I want to extract this name field.
Then how we can do the JSON data dot name JSON path.
JSON path.
Last class we have seen right.
So JSON path name.
So what this will return.
This will actually return the value of the name.
But here we don't need a value.
Just we need to verify the type.
So PM dot expect JSON data dot name to be a string.
We are expecting that name should be as a string.
Similarly JSON data.id to be a number.
If it is in double quotes then we will expect the string here.
If it is not in double quotes then we are expecting just a number.
Similarly, JSON data dot Courses.
Courses.
Dot.
To be.
What is the type of this courses area.
So it should be area.
So now we can verify the data type of each and every field.
In the response.
We can verify the data type of each and every field in the response.
Okay.
For example now I want to verify the data type.
Okay.
Java is a part of the courses.
So courses is a array type.
So the whole response should be an object type.
The name should be a string type ID should be a number type courses should be an array type.
So these are the validations I put in one single test method.
So before doing all these validations what is the main thing we need to do.
We need to capture the response body into a variable because we are going to validate the response body
here.
So before applying validations on the response body, we have to capture the response into a variable.
Then we can refer that variable in every validation point.
Okay.
So this is data validation data type validation data type validation.
Let us add this and see now.
So data type validation.
So let me add this validation point.
Go to the postman.
Now this is the response right.
So as of now ID is also string here.
So let's go to scripts.
Now I'm adding this.
See I'm capturing the data.
So first I captured the PM dot response dot JSON into the variable itself.
So this variable I'm trying to reuse in multiple validations.
So I have not created as part of the method.
Suppose I can also do inside the method if you want.
This is also correct.
But why I have not put this in inside the method?
Because I want to use this JSON data for further validations.
I'm trying to create another test methods in those test methods.
Also, I'm trying to refer the same JSON data variable.
So that's the reason I'm creating this.
Outside of this method.
You understood my point everyone.
So why you have created this statement separately here?
Because I want to make this as a common variable across multiple test methods.
Because not only this, I want to verify multiple things in the response.
Suppose if you put this statement inside this method then what will happen.
This this variable we can access only within this method.
And again if you want to write another test method again you have to capture the JSON response.
So that is the reason to make this reusable.
I'll put this as a separate variable like this okay.
Now so same JSON data I'm trying to refer in every way, so the whole response should be an object.
The name should be a string and ID should be a string.
Courses should be a array.
This is what I'm expecting.
So the test data type of the response.
Now execute this and see see.
Anyway these three will fail because expected is 13 milliseconds.
It is taken because we specify only ten.
So definitely it will fail.
Now the last one you can see test data type of the response is got passed.
That means what every data type is correctly mentioned.
For example here id I'm just mentioning as a number.
But what is the type of the id here?
String.
But what is the type I mentioned here.
Number.
So when I execute again see the output.
This time it is got failed.
So expected one to be a number.
We are expecting number actually.
But it's actually is what string.
So it is got failed.
So this is how we can verify the data type of the response.
This is a first validation.
We can do type of the data.
We can verify from the verify check the value types.
Now we will actually check the data array properties.
Also we can verify.
Suppose there is a specific array type.
Is there array field is there in your JSON response.
For example this is my courses array and the courses contain some data.
And I want to verify this data is correct or not.
So the courses contains a Java or not.
The courses contain selenium or not that I can verify because this is an array.
Array means what array contains a multiple elements.
So we can also add some validations on this elements.
Multiple elements.
So how we can verify the array specifically.
First we need to capture the field.
How to capture the field by using JSON path JSON data.
Because JSON data.
We already mentioned this here.
So JSON data, dot courses JSON path.
So what.
This will return whatever the values are there in the courses, these two values will be returned.
Now what I'm what I'm expecting here to include Java.
How we can verify this.
It will basically verify the Java is part of this array or not.
The value Java is included in courses or not.
If it is included, this verification will pass.
If not included, verification fails.
This is one method which we have another method.
For example, if you want to verify multiple values, you may have 5 to 10 values here, but I want
to verify a few number of values.
Now the courses are having Java or selenium, Java and Selenium, both are having or not.
Then you can write multiple values simply.
You can extract the courses by writing JSON path dot to have members and whatever the data we have in
array, we can specify the whole array name here.
Array which contains all the elements.
So this will exactly compare with the data which is there in the courses.
If all the elements are there, all the members are there exist, then this verification point will
pass, otherwise it will fail.
So this is array specific validation array properties we can validate.
Okay.
So let me add this array element.
Specifically we can verify PM dot test.
And here JSON data dot courses include Java.
And again multiple values are included or not.
If you want to verify you can use this assertion two dot have Dot members.
Let me try to execute this.
So now the last one is passed.
Test array properties are got passed okay.
For example here I say Python.
Python is there or not.
It's not there.
Definitely.
That should fail.
Now you can see it has got failed.
Okay, so that's how we can verify the properties of the array.
So what are the properties?
Are values are present in the array or not.
We can have a single value.
We can verify or multiple values.
Also we can verify.
So this is a test method we can add to verify the values in a array in the response.
So finally data validation.
This is very important.
Data validation.
So for example in the response here we got some ID is equal to one name equal to John.
Location India.
We got some data.
So we need to verify the data is correct.
Also correct or not that also we can verify.
So how we can verify.
Again we need to capture the value of the particular field by writing JSON path.
So how we can write is if I look at this again I have taken PM dot response dot JSON.
Actually we already written somewhere here PM dot response dot JSON.
But again I have written here this is not needed within the method, right?
So we capture the JSON response in this variable.
Now let us see the validation points.
That is the most important.
So how we can verify the data here.
So to verify the data we need to write a JSON path.
If I look at this properly uh we captured the data in the JSON data.
Now we are referring here pm dot expect JSON data.id.
Suppose you may have a complex JSON response.
In that case, you need to write the complete path of your JSON complete JSON path.
You need to include.
Okay, so JSON data id two equal to what one we are expecting.
If it is a string, we need to put in the double quotes.
Now JSON data dot name two equal John JSON data dot location to equal India JSON data dot form to equal
this number.
JSON data dot courses of zero.
The first value we are extracting.
Second value we are extracting here.
First value should equal to Java.
Second value should be equal to selenium.
So the data also we can verify individual data fields.
Also we can verify.
So let's add this validation point there.
So how we can verify the exact data data fields.
So let me add this validation point in the postman.
Let me clear this.
Go to scripts again.
So here I'm adding it.
So do we really.
Uh okay this is okay.
So PM dot test value of the fields in the response.
So here I haven't put this var JSON data pm dot response.
Because we already kept this statement as a global.
In the previous validation we already captured the data in the JSON data.
Same JSON data variable.
I am referring here.
So JSON data id equal to one.
Name equal to John.
Location India and other stuff.
I am validating.
So this is a validation point.
Values of fields in a response.
Okay now let me send this.
Yes.
Let's go back to head results and see the last one.
Values of fields in the response is perfectly correct.
Suppose let me just change the, uh, data.
Let's say instead of Java I say Python execute.
And now it is got failed.
We are expecting Python got the response.
We have a Java mismatch is there.
So we can also verify the data in the JSON response.
So this is the basic stuff we are trying to understand.
On the basic response.
We are trying to understand how we can put different validation points okay.
In the coming sessions, I will show you the complex response complex.
Sometimes you may not have the response in this simple way, so you will have a complex response, complex
data you can have.
But still we can write a validations.
But first of all, we are trying to understand what kind of validation we can add, what kind of test
methods we can add.
So once you understand this we can apply them.
Same thing for the complex response okay.
So the fields also we can validate as part of the response.
So what are the things we have verified as part of the response body.
First thing we verified the type of the field data types we verified.
Second thing is what a specific validations.
Also we can add if there is an error in the response we can add.
We can also verify the elements in the array are correct or not.
Third thing is what the data validation each and every field data we can verify by adding the validation
points.
Okay.
This is all response body related validation response body.
And finally there is one more important validation we need to do.
Actually we need to do that first.
But we are doing it the last which is schema validation.
Schema validation.
Interview prospective.
This is most important.
What is schema and what is schema validation.
What you will do.
What type of validation you will do as part of schema validation.
Anybody know what is schema?
What is schema means?
Normally when you learn databases SQL you may hear this term schema table schema something like that.
Schema is.
Schema is also called as a metadata.
The data about the data or data of data is called metadata, which is also called as a schema in the
database language.
Similarly, even in the JSON, also we have a JSON schema, even XML.
Also we have XML schema.
So in every type of data we have a schema okay.
So first let us try to understand what exactly the schema means.
Because if you have a schema based on that the data will be generated.
Data can be created.
If we do not have schema we cannot create any JSON or anything.
Okay.
So in the previous example we are validating more than one field.
But whatever field got failed, it has written yes.
Suppose if one field has got failed, the entire test method will fail.
Okay, so if one single field has got failed here, the whole test method will fail.
If you want to separately write in multiple test methods for each and every field, you can write it,
but especially when you are validating the data.
We don't split into multiple test methods because these are all related to single response same data.
We are all the data we are expecting, right?
So even if one single field is not correct, the whole test should fail.
Actually, that's the reason we included everything in one test method.
But for response time is different, status code is different.
These are different components.
So that's the reason we put different test methods for them.
But when you come to the response this is all part of the one single response body.
So we are expecting all the data should be accurate.
All the data should be correct.
So that is the reason we put all the validations in one single test method.
Okay.
So even if one data is not match, the whole test method will failed, right?
So now let us see.
Let us try to understand what is schema and how we can validate schema.
So I'll make you understand very simple right.
So let's try to understand this in the database perspective.
Then we will try to apply same thing for JSON schema okay.
So let us say I have a simple table like this in the database table.
Stable.
Right.
So I have a three columns employee ID, employee name, employee salary, ID name and salary.
This is the data actually.
So what it is it is a table.
So the table table contains the data okay.
Now what is the schema of the table.
What is the schema means data about the data means what.
If you look at the column names what are the column names here?
Employee ID or field names.
Column names or field names.
What are the field names here?
Employee ID name.
Salary.
These are the field names.
So what is schema here means what?
Employee ID is what integer name is what string.
Salary is what number or integer.
Right.
So this is a schema More of this particular table.
So now we understood what is the data.
What is a schema.
So what is a schema is representing.
The schema is actually representing the data type of each and every field in the table.
That's called schema okay.
Now let us apply the same thing for JSON.
So what is a JSON schema means.
So let's say this is my data ID name location phone courses.
These are the data.
These are the fields.
Now what is the type of the ID number.
What is the type of the name sorry string.
And what is the type of the location again string.
What is the type of the phone.
Again this is an array type right.
So this is called schema of the response.
So now what we need to validate our response is generated according to the schema or not.
Our schema is generated according to the schema or Not that we need to verify.
That's called schema validation.
JSON schema validation.
Okay, but what is a prerequisite here?
How we can verify this is followed exactly.
Schema or not.
This response is coming according to the schema or not.
How we will know that.
What is the prerequisite?
What is a prerequisite?
So if you want to verify this is following exact JSON schema or not according to schema or not.
So what we have to know first before comparing.
Before checking, we need to know the schema of the JSON, which is very important, not a swagger schema.
We have to know so which schema it is following on based on which schema this data has got generated.
So we need to know JSON schema.
We need to have this JSON schema with us.
Then we can check this data is created according to the JSON schema or not so JSON schema we should
have.
That is a prerequisite.
So if we have this JSON schema then we can check this data is generated according to the JSON schema
or not.
That is a point.
But how we will know JSON schema actually in the real time.
The developer will also provide the schemas okay.
Accordingly, whatever response you capture so schemas they will provide.
But here how we will know the schema.
Suppose you already have some JSON data response you have.
But how.
We will know the schema so we can generate it.
But manual generation is very toughest thing.
There are some tools are available internet in online.
So by using those tools we will generate the schema of the response based on the response.
So suppose this is my response.
Now I want to know the schema of this response JSON schema of the response.
So how we will know that.
Let's go to the Google.
And there are so many websites out there, you can just search for JSON to JSON schema.
Okay, just search for JSON to JSON schema.
So there are so many tools out there.
You can take this one JSON to JSON schema converter.
Okay.
So here you can simply paste your JSON data whatever you have.
So this is the JSON response data.
Now capture it and paste it over here.
Okay.
Paste it over here.
And then simply generate a schema.
Click on this button.
Now you can see the schema has got generated.
Schema has got generated.
Now you can see the schema.
You can easily understand what is the the what is the type of this whole object.
This whole thing is JSON object right.
So the type is equal to object.
And this object.
What are the properties are there in this object ID is one property name is another property location,
phone calls.
These are all called properties or attributes.
So it is saying properties are what ID is.
One property name is property, phone is not property, courses is property.
These are all properties.
And if for every property there is a type.
So what is a type of data we have here that also mentioned here okay.
So this is exactly JSON schema.
So now what we need to do.
We need to verify the response is exactly matching with JSON schema or not.
That is a validation we have to do okay.
So there are so many tools are there.
This is a tool I recommend.
And you guys I just put in the chat box also you can use this later.
So whatever the JSON response you have in the postman you can copy here and generate the schema.
It will generate the schema like this.
Even sometimes developer may not provide you.
So you can use this tool to generate the JSON A schema.
Okay.
So now let us see how we can validate JSON schema.
So to validate JSON schema we have to use something third party package or library.
So first thing this is our response.
This is the current response which we have.
Now also we have a JSON schema right.
This is a JSON schema.
Currently we have.
Then how we can validate.
So this is the test method.
Schema validation function.
Arrow function.
You can write whatever you want pm dot expect.
So there is a package called TV4.
TV4 is a one of the package which is supported by postman itself.
So we have to use this TV4 package to verify the schema.
So TV4 dot validate and whatever the JSON data we have captured from the response, we need to pass
that as a first parameter and whatever schema.
So this is schema we have to without the whole schema we have to store in one other variable.
So the JSON response we have to store in one variable.
The whole schema we have to specify in another variable.
Now we need to pass these two variables inside the validate method.
So JSON data.
Corresponding schema.
And to be true then what means what is the meaning of this.
Whatever JSON data we followed that is generated based on the schema.
If it is generated based on the schema, we are expecting what true we are expecting.
So if the data is not exactly following the schema, then this test method will fail.
Okay, this is simple.
One method we have to add.
So let me show you how we can add this schema validation.
Now come here schema validation.
If you want to write a comment in JavaScript use slash slash okay so schema validation.
How to add schema validation.
So we already added the JSON data point.
Right.
So here you can see this is already added.
So we don't need to add this JSON data we already have.
So what is the next thing we need to have is schema.
So I'll create one more variable called var.
Okay I say schema equal to.
So we need to add the schema equal to in the curly braces.
So whatever schema we generated here online.
So we need to just copy the whole schema.
I'm just copying this.
Okay.
Now go back to the postman.
So just copy the whole schema.
Go back to the postman and then add the schema into this schema variable.
So just add it here.
So schema var schema equal to.
So this is schema whatever I have generated through online.
Just add it here.
So now once we added the schema now we need to actually add the method test method.
So this is the actual schema validation method.
So TV4.
I think this is a deprecated.
TV4 is deprecated.
Okay.
Use require a j v.
Okay.
Let me use this a j v.
Okay.
So TV4 is a old package guys.
So I think now it is got deprecated in the latest versions of postman.
So instead of TV4 you can just use Ajv a J V is another package.
So dot validate JSON data we have to pass and schema.
Also we need to pass JSON data we already captured into variable earlier.
This contains the response and the schema.
We just created a variable where we copied all the schema which we generated through online.
So now let us try to execute.
This schema is valid or not send.
Now go back to the test results.
Now you can see that the last one is got failed.
Ajv is not defined.
Okay, probably we need to import some package for Ajv.
Let's put here.
Okay.
Because this is a new package where we are using newly I think we need to import some package for this.
Ajv.
Just a moment.
So let's see what is ajv in postman validate JSON schema.
So you can see how they have exactly used in Ajv to verify the schema validation.
Okay.
So I think this is how they have used.
Okay.
So I think this is a package which we need to import.
So before using I'm just using this.
Uh ajv.
We keep in the single.
This is the way we need to import package in, uh JavaScript.
So required.
Normally in the Java we use something called import.
Right.
So similarly JavaScript, whenever you are trying to validate some third party library you have to import
it.
So this AGV I'm trying to use it here okay.
So let's try to execute this now.
Okay.
Now you can see the test results.
Okay.
So validate AGV dot validate is not a function I think validate is not coming here.
Let me check.
Another method is there.
So we don't have that method.
Let us see.
Is there any other method is available.
But I could not see validate method.
Uh agv dot validate expect a schema.
Yeah.
To be true I think this is the method they have used.
Let me try this.
Expect.
Okay so a GB dot validate expect schema.
Expect schema in the sense this is a schema you have to pass and JSON data we have to pass here.
Okay let us try this syntax if it works or not.
PM dot expect a G is basically a third party package.
Validate schema.
Whatever schema we have captured that we are passing data to be true.
So let's execute now.
So still it is failing.
Schema is valid type error a g v dot validate is not a function.
Okay so maybe some changes are there.
I'll check it later.
So let's keep the comment here.
Let's go with the TV5 for now.
So later I will do the research on it and let you know.
So this is a new change in the latest postman tool, but earlier this is the worst TV for dot validate
JSON data.
We can pass schema to be true.
Okay, now let me just try to execute this and rest of the two I have just commented.
Later we will explore this.
Click on the send method.
Now we can see schema is valid means schema validation is successfully done.
Okay, so this is how we can also verify the schema validation in postman tool.
Right so understood everyone.
So these are the different type of validations we can do on the response.
So it can be any type of API.
So we have to use same kind of assertions in all kinds of APIs and all kinds of request.
Okay.
Understood.
Everyone clear so far.
Please confirm in the chat box so you don't need to remember anything.
Guys I will share this document anyway.
So suppose if you if you are trying to test any other APIs, you can just have these methods with you.
Suppose you want to verify the status code.
Just copy this method and there is official documentation is already there in the postman actually.
So I, I created this document from the document itself official document and just go to postman postman
scripts.
You can just search for postman scripts.
Okay so this is the link.
Actually write a test.
So in this you can find all the different.
You can see status code validation and body validation all kinds of validations.
You can see here scripts scripts example.
So go to scripts example.
Here you can find.
So these this is based on this I have created the document actually.
So you can see our status code text validation and content type validation cookies validation test cookies
cookies validation response times validation okay.
So even JSON data.
We captured schema validation, expected data validation.
So all the things are there here in the documentation they provided.
So based on this documentation I prepared this all the common validations which are required for almost
every API.
So that is how we have done so actually we have used this method for validation.
So it is still valid actually.
So you can see if you want to verify the schema validation.
So postman documentation also they mentioned the same thing.
I think they have not still updated the document even though they have deprecated but still they have
not updated the document.
So later we will see how we can use that.
Okay.
So you can refer this.
So this is all about validations.
We can put all different values.
You can try by adding other validations.
So you can add same kind of validation for other request.
We have get all students create a new student update student delete student.
So for these requests also I already added some validations.
If I go back all College students.
So I have added some validations here and create a new student.
Also have added some validation status.
Code is 201 content type okay and content values everything I have added update student, delete student
so you can add scripts in the script section.
Post response.
Here you can add all the validations and verify the response.
Okay, so they won't exactly ask the coding part in interview and what they will ask.
They will just ask generic way.
So what are the things you will test as part of the response?
So you need to tell all the things like we will verify the status code, status code, text.
We will validate status code, response time, content headers cookies, response body schema.
So all these things we will validate.
So in the high level they will ask like this.
What are the components you will validate as part of the response so that you need to tell.
And there are few.
There are only very less number of things are they justify to between 5 to 10 methods are there.
But if you already know JavaScript it is very easy to remember.
Okay.
But you have to remember this few, at least a few methods.
Suppose randomly they have asked some question how to validate the status code.
So at least you have to know the method.
You should able to write that like PM dot response to have status equal to 200.
So at least you need to remember like this okay.
So you do practice continuously.
Then you will able to remember few things.
This is all comes from Chai assertion library.
By default postman is using this library okay.
So going forward I'll show you so many other things.
So because we have taken simple API response and we have applied all different type of validations,
but actually in the real APIs you won't see this much of simple response.
Most of the times you will see complex response.
There are repeated fields.
Are there duplicate fields also there.
Okay.
In the coming sessions, I will show you how we can validate responses if it is very complex.
But we will understand.
We understood today what are the different things we can verify and how we can verify by adding different
test methods.
So that is the most important thing you need to focus.
Okay.
So I will share this document today.
You guys can go through each and everything.
And also I will upload this uh collection.
And you can import in your postman directly.
And you can see all the request I'll show you how to import.
And export is very simple.
So you can just click on the three dots here and you can see one option called export.
So when I say export it will select the collection 2.2 latest version.
And I just click on the export here and you can save the file.
And the file name extension is dot JSON itself okay.
So we can export like suppose how we can import this.
Suppose you already have this file.
So then what you can do how you can import this.
You have import button here click on import.
And here you can drag and drop directly.
And as soon as you drag and drop here it will import the collection.
So I will share the collection.
Also today you guys can import and go through each and every request add required validations.
So that is your task today.
All right.
So in the next class I will discuss more about this Pre-request scripts.
There are two kinds of scripts in postman post response scripts.
They are all basically validations Pre-request script that are that are basically dealing with the pre-request
scripts means what?
Before sending the response we have to execute certain scripts.
So those type of scripts we can include in the pre-request.
So in the next classes I will discuss about this okay.
So that's all for today's session I will stop here.
We'll continue in the next class.