So today we'll start with two different type of APIs.
So first let us see how we can uh test file upload APIs.
Okay.
So sometimes what happens.
So when you see file upload scenario in the web UI.
So internally what exactly happening when you're uploading the file or single file or multiple files
internally the APIs will be triggered.
So the APIs is actually doing the job.
So API will get the request from the client and then send the same request to the database.
And whatever files you have attached or uploaded will be stored in a server.
So for that we have a different type of APIs are available.
And today, uh, let me show you how we can set up that API because it is difficult to find, uh, these
type of APIs in internet public APIs.
So we will create our own API, uh, to upload single file and multiple files.
And then we will see how we can test this in our postman tool.
So to test this API, I just given one link here.
You can just go to this link and we can simply download a jar file.
So open this link and you just go here.
So here file upload rest API dot jar file is there.
So this is a development project.
Actually we have done long back and given this as a jar file.
So you can just download this jar file.
So we can simply download.
You can just click on the three dots and simply say download and jar file will be downloaded.
Okay.
So once you downloaded the jar file you can just keep in somewhere.
Anywhere will also provide the jar file.
So you can just I kept here under C drive automation files and I put my file here.
So file upload rest api dot jar file.
So this is a step number one.
So we need to download the jar file.
So how we can run the jar file through command prompt.
If you have installed Java, we can run the jar file.
So any jar file we can run through Java command.
So to run this jar file simply we can execute one command called Java hyphen jar and the name of the
file okay.
Because this project is implemented using spring boot application.
So finally we created a jar file and we can run the jar file using Java jar.
So let us start running this jar file so it will start the API.
It's very simple very easy.
So I'm opening command prompt.
So once you open this command prompt here I'll run one command Java iPhone jar.
So if you want to run any jar file this is the same command we use Java hyphen jar and then file name
file hyphen upload hyphen rest api dot jar.
So once you execute this command it will start running your API.
So you can see at the end you can see JVM running.
So you can just wait till you get this message and you should minimize this window.
If you close this window you will API will stop running.
Okay.
So as soon as you get this message started file demo application, simply minimize it.
So now your API is up and running.
And how we can verify that.
Suppose if you started this API then you can open this URL.
So this is basically web URL.
If I open this URL on the web you can see here this is the UI application is currently running.
This is a UI not API.
This is just a UI.
So from the UI also we can upload the file.
You can simply choose file and browse the file.
Whichever you want.
You can say open and then submit.
And similarly if you want to upload multiple files, you can click on the choose files and select multiple
files and simply say open and multiple files will be uploaded after submission.
Multiple files can be uploaded.
So this we can do through UI but not through UI.
We should do this through API now.
Okay so but currently application is running.
But how we can do the same activity through API back end APIs.
Now for that there are two APIs.
Uh endpoints are provided.
One is for uploading single file.
Another is for uploading multiple files.
So let me show you how we can access the endpoints.
So once you cross check your API is up and running.
Once you are able to see the UI, that means your API is running.
So now let us go with the postman and this is the post URL.
And both are the post request for uploading file, single file or multiple files.
We should send a Post request.
So what is the URL.
So http localhost colon 8080 slash upload file.
This is a Post request we have to send.
And when you send this Post request what is the risk?
What is the request body we have to add.
So what could be the request body here?
File.
So whatever file we are going to upload that is a file should go as part of request body.
Okay.
So now this will be different I'll show you how we can do this.
So let me go to the postman.
And here I'll create a new collection or I already have collection.
Let me try to import this.
So click on import and you can just drag and drop.
Your collection will be imported.
So file uploaded.
So I'll just try to rename it let's say day seven today and file upload.
Now first of all let's see single file upload.
So basically it is a Post request.
So I have taken post and this is the URL I mentioned.
And this is a URL.
And when I send the post request uh 8080 is a default port number.
So we cannot change it okay.
So that is already specified as part of, uh, development.
So whenever you start running the jar file.
So by default, 8080 port will be taken.
Okay.
So that is every website or any URL should have port number.
Anything will run through port number only.
Okay.
Yeah.
So localhost colon 8080 slash upload file.
So this is basically post request URL.
Now what is the body we have to send.
Because upload file is basically we can upload only single file.
Right.
So if I go back to the body session body section here.
So earlier how we have taken normally we just go to the RA and go to the JSON.
And here we specify the request body in the JSON format.
But this time we don't need to send any JSON format of the text.
We just send the file single file we need to upload.
So we need to just send the file.
So for that we need to take another option called form data Okay, so there is a radio button form data
we have to select.
So when I select the form data it will give one table.
And here you can see there is one key.
It is added.
If it is not added we can add our own.
So for example by default you may not get this.
By default you will get this table like this.
Now we need to add here.
So what we need to add file is a key.
And what is a value we need to take here text or file.
Because we are going to upload a file.
So we need to select the file okay.
And here we need to browse the file.
So where exactly our file is present.
So I'm just going to new file from local machine I am selecting this.
Click on it and now browse the file wherever it is.
So I already have one file here.
Test one dot txt just say open okay.
Now the key is a file and type is file.
Here the value is test one dot txt.
so we no need to pass anything else.
If you just want to write a small description, you can upload or single file attached.
Okay.
Simple description.
You can write or you can leave it empty.
No problem.
So this is how we need to use form.
Data is a field which we have to use before sending the file.
So now we can simply send the request.
Now save it and then send it.
Now this is a response.
If I look at here what is the file we have uploaded.
Test one dot txt.
So this is also part of the response.
So it will accept all kinds of formats.
You can upload Excel as PDF word document, any type of file you can upload CSV.
All types of files are supported.
File is simple file only okay so it can upload any file.
So now you can see the response here.
So in the response you can see file name is exactly the same.
Whatever test one dot txt we provided same file name is displaying and file download URL.
are so where exactly the file is uploaded.
So the URL is also given.
Okay.
And what is the file type we uploaded.
Text file.
So text slash plain.
Suppose if you have uploaded some other type of file then the file type will be changed.
How much size it is.
It is just 770.
Maybe it is a KB in 70 KB.
The file is there.
Okay, so this is how we can simply send request post request to upload the single file.
Okay.
Suppose again if you want to check the file is successfully uploaded on a plane is described the plain
text.
So this is called a mime type.
Every file is having a mime type.
Suppose if it is a text file the Mime type is or file type is text slash plain okay.
And similarly JSON slash application for JSON.
Similarly, for CSV there is a different Mime type.
So for every type of a file there will be a different file type will be there.
So by default it is displaying here.
So all kinds of files are accepted.
Whichever file type you have uploaded the type file will be displayed.
Simple.
Okay.
So now this is how we can simply upload the file.
Suppose if you want to check whether it is uploaded or not.
So it is already given the URI right?
Can we use this URI in another request?
Let me copy this URI and I'll create another request here generate add request.
And what I can do here.
Check.
Or you can say instead of a single file upload or download single file okay.
Because once you upload it we can also do download right.
We can also verify download.
So it is already given the URL.
Once you have uploaded the URL is already given.
So now the same URL I can pass it here, but which type of request we have to send here.
Get the request.
We have to send because the file is already exist.
We are retrieving the file.
So pass this URL whatever URL is got generated.
Just pass it here and click on the send.
Save and then send.
Now you can see basically it is showing the content of the file.
But if you are using this in the UI it will download the file.
But here it is not possible.
Simply it is showing the content of the file.
So where exactly it is created?
If you want to look at and go to the C drive.
And here by default the upload folder is got created, the file is got uploaded here.
Even download is also happened from here.
If I open the file take the extra text.
You can see these are the three lines of text which we have.
Same text is got displayed as part of response text type of response we captured here.
Suppose if you are uploaded JSON file here then you are downloading the JSON file.
So here the content is also JSON type of content you will get.
Okay, so this is single file upload and single file download.
Now let us try to upload multiple files.
Go to another post, request multiple files.
How we can upload the multiple files.
And remember what is the body.
We have to send form data.
In the form data, we need to add a file key and browse the file.
And this is the response we will get.
Now upload multiple files.
So the path has got changed.
This time upload multiple files here.
Upload file just.
That's it.
Now here we need to add multiple files.
Let us see how we can do that.
So here this is a URL.
Post request URL.
Go to the body.
Same form data.
Previously we have taken the keys.
Just a file.
But this time we have to take files files.
And here I can type these files.
And now here we need to add two files currently already added.
Let me remove them.
So now we need to browse two files.
So simply click here new file from local machine.
So I can just select the two files.
Now I say open.
So now two files are not attached.
So I can write description here.
Attached two files.
You can upload multiple files.
Now save the request.
Now just observe I'm just sending the request.
Now we can see this is my first file which is got uploaded.
And this is second file is got uploaded.
So this is the response again in the JSON format okay.
Now again if you want to check the download multiple multiple files, you cannot download at a time.
Only at that time you can download only single file.
So if I use this URL it will download the first file.
And if I use this URL it will download the second file and where exactly these files are created here
under C drive upload.
This is the default path which you have given in the jar file.
So this is the path.
By default it is taken.
You no need to create upload folder that will automatically create it.
So for example I just try to remove this uploads.
I don't have upload folder.
Now again I'm sending the same request one more time.
And what are you saying here?
500 internal server error I think that file is not.
We should stop the API.
Then only we can do this.
Let me because API is running right.
So the API process is uh, the locked those two files even we have deleted this, but it is not uh,
removed by this API.
So we need to stop the API.
Okay.
And then we have to rerun the API one more time because manually we should not delete because API will
capture.
See as soon as you run this API Automatically uploads folder got created and if you open the uploads
there are no files.
Okay, so when I run this request.
Now again one more time.
So two files are got uploaded.
So this is the positive response.
We got it okay.
Form data we have to pass.
When you're uploading single file or multiple files okay.
Any file type can upload or download using form data.
Yes it supports all the files.
So that's the reason they have not given a specific file type here.
File is nothing but what a generic file any any type of file okay.
And again it depends on the type of API how the API has got developed.
So this API currently supporting text files and CSV files.
I tested a different type of files also image files.
Image files have not tested.
You guys can try if you want and excel files PDF files.
So currently these files are supporting with this API.
I'm not sure about other type of files.
Maybe image files.
I'm not tested.
You guys can try this.
It is depends on the development again.
So according to the functionality, what type of files the API should accept and how much size it should
accept depends on the requirement they design the API.
Okay, but for this API we don't know the exact requirement, but we can simply test by attaching simple
files.
You can try with a different type of files okay.
Right.
So this is how we can simply and if you want you can add scripts also.
So based on the response you can validate the file name is exactly same or not.
And you can validate the file type is same or not size.
Also we can validate by writing the scripts in the post response okay.
All right.
So this is how we can simply upload single file and multiple files.
I'll share this document along with the jar file.
You guys can just do one round of practice.
That is enough okay.
Now So is this clear, everyone?
So now I'll move on to the next one.
All right.
So now let us see the different type of authentications.
What are the what are the different type of authentications supported in postman.
So very important concept guys.
So please listen carefully.
What is the meaning of authentication.
Authentication.
Authorization.
Both are same or not.
Authentication.
Authorization.
Access control.
There are multiple terms.
Are there?
So are they same or are they different?
Access control is totally different.
Authentication authorization is almost the same.
Okay.
And what is a major difference in authentication or authorization.
Basically it will check the user is valid or not.
The user is valid or not.
In access control, what you will test if the user is valid, what kind of privileges he has.
Okay, that is a part of access control.
So here we are talking about authorization or authentication of the user.
So when it is required.
So whenever you are trying to access some type of APIs sometimes we need a different type of authentications.
And basically for security purpose they add Authentications and some APIs we can directly access.
Some APIs require some token, some APIs, we require some API key.
Some APIs are required.
Username and login.
Some APIs are required.
What to watch one.
Authentication.
So so many types of authentications are there.
Basically all types of authentication are implemented as part of security okay.
To add security to the APIs.
All right.
So mostly when you're working on real time, definitely you will have some kind of authentication on
your APIs.
But most of the public APIs doesn't have any authentication we can directly access.
Okay.
So let us start discussing about what are the Authentications are supported in postman and how we can
test the APIs by using those type of Authentications to demonstrate authentication.
I have taken different type of APIs because single API doesn't support all kinds of Authentications
single request, single API request cannot support.
So each type of authentication I will try to demonstrate a different type of API request.
Because some API request may take username login, some APIs will take token, some API is required
API key some API is required OAuth authentication.
So different type of authentications are there.
Okay.
So first of all let us try to understand what are the different type of authentications postman will
support.
This is again tool specific.
Okay.
Postman, what kind of authentications or authorizations.
Postman will support.
So basically there are many number of authentications are supported, but some authentications are very
generic and any type of applications, any type of APIs can have such type of authentications, but
some authentications are application specific.
For example, AWS is a different kind of a project that needs a separate authentication.
Okay.
Similarly, some different type of applications are the different type of uh, authentications are provided
in postman, but there are some authentications which are generic means.
Mostly most of the APIs.
90% of the APIs will follow such type of authentications.
Okay, so let me show you where we can see the authentications.
So if I just open any type of a request.
So if I just go back and see authorization tab.
Here you can see the list of authorizations.
No auth basic auth bearer token JWT digest auth one two hoc authentication.
So the first whatever you can see these are all generic Authentications basic bearer token and digest
OAuth API key.
Okay, these are all generic authentications, but if you look at JWT hoc authentication, NTLM, Akamai
ASAP.
So these are all specific AWS signature.
These are all application specific.
Authentications okay.
Because if you have access or account on these applications, then only we can create these authentication
and we can use it okay.
And also these are more advanced and recently added these authentications in the postman based on the
request by those applications okay.
because they're not currently using these generic authentications, but 9080 to 90% of the applications
are using generic authentications.
Okay.
We'll try to understand this because the rest of them we cannot simulate in our environment.
But whatever the generic authentications are there, we will discuss them, how exactly they will work,
how we can create those authentications, and how we can send the request with other authentications.
We will discuss one by one.
Okay, right.
So I have taken few types of authentication.
First, let us start with the basic auth.
What is a basic authentication required?
Basic authentication means simple.
We need to pass username and password.
So username and password is required.
And that username and password will be encoded into a requested header.
So that will be encoded along with the request URL.
The username and password will be sent in the encoded format.
That is simple basic auth.
So whenever you log in to any application by default basic authentication will be triggered.
Gmail or Yahoo login login screens.
All the login screens basically implemented basic auth username and password.
Okay, so here I have given a few examples.
Uh, later I will show you in the postman.
So basically basic auth required username and password.
And this is another URL request which is also required username and password.
So let's go to the postman.
I already created one collection here with a different type of authentication.
So let me try to explore one by one.
So I'll try to change this name.
Day seven Authentications or.
Authorizations whatever.
So first one let's go to the basic auth.
So whatever request I have given here the same request.
This is actually postman uh request.
And what this will return.
So this will return something whether it is valid or not.
Uh I'm sending get request and this is the URL and I've selected book author.
Suppose I just try to remove this authentication and say no auth, nothing.
So when I send this request so you will see unauthorized.
Unauthorized because we are not provided any authentication to access this request.
So what kind of authentication it is required.
It is supported basic auth.
So when I say basic auth we need to pass a username and a password.
So what is the password I have passed.
Here is password itself.
The password is password only.
So when I add this authentication when I send this you can see authenticated is true.
Authenticated is true.
Okay.
Now if I go back and see the headers.
So these are the default headers that got created.
You can see authorization.
So whatever the username and password we have given that is basically encoded.
So this is encoded format of username and password.
That is a part of the header.
It is automatically attached to the header and which we cannot see here.
This is basic authentication.
Simple.
Very straight forward.
We can simply select basic auth, provide username and password and then send it.
Okay.
This is basic authentication.
So when I send this request so the response is authenticated.
That means your authentication is successful 200 is okay.
And similarly there is another type of authentication.
This is also basic authentication.
Another request.
And this is another Get request and which is also required basic authentication.
And for example here I'm not taking any authorization.
And when I send this request uh no no headers by default will be added not eight headers.
So headers is by default added when you send a some request which is having a lot of content connection,
accept encoding or not user agent.
These are some default values added by postman itself, and we no need to consider all the headers,
but there are few headers which we need to understand.
Okay, so go to authorization.
As of now, no authorization.
I'm sending this request.
Now you can see the response not authorized.
But now I'm sending the basic authorization and username is admin.
Password is also admin.
Now save this request.
Go back to the headers and see authorization is here is encoded.
Now if I send this request and you got some response but it's HTML format of response, this time we
got HTML response.
Depends on how depends on how the API is designed.
We'll get the response, but we need to make sure 200 is okay correct or not okay.
This is a code.
So these are two basic authentications and they are straightforward.
We don't need to do any setup.
Nothing.
No configurations.
Simply if you know username and password we can directly go to authorization.
Select a basic auth and here provide username and password.
Send it.
That's it.
So this will do the basic authentication.
Now there is another type of authentication called digest auth.
Digest authentication which is also exactly similar to basic authentication but slight difference is
there.
Okay.
In the basic authentication uh the username and password is just encoded.
Encoded is nothing.
But what encryption is different.
Encoded is nothing but what it is just not visible.
Right.
Uh, are we able to visible?
Just we provided here, but in the headers it is not visible.
But in digest authentication is also required.
Just username and password.
But the difference is in the, uh, digest authentication the username password will be encrypted in
the network.
Also it will transport in the encryption format.
It will transport in the encrypted format.
But in the basic authentication It will not encrypt actually, so it is not much secure.
Only digest authentication is more secure than basic authentication.
Why?
Because in the basic authentication, the username and password will directly transport to the network.
It will not be encrypted, but it will just show in encoded format for the user.
But in the transportation it will it will go directly.
But in the digest authentication the username and password will be encrypted and then it will transfer
to the network.
It is almost similar to the basic authentication, but more secure as it is uses encryption technique.
So whatever APIs are supported basic auth.
They also support digest auth.
Most of the APIs because most both are almost similar only except the transcription encryption part.
Rest of them are similar similar type of architecture.
So let us try to use digest.
So if I go back to the this one this will also support digest authentication.
So let me show you how it will be digest auth.
So in the postman again I'm sending the same request get URL and this time in authorization I'm taking
digest auth instead of basic auth.
If I take basic auth also it will work because both are supported and I'm taking digest auth here.
And what is the username and password is postman and password is also password.
And I'm going to send this and I got the response authenticated.
Now let's go back and see the console once how it is going to send okay.
Now we have send this request.
And if I go back.
And these tokens are all postman are created.
You can see authorization digest username is equal to postman.
And I can see this is I think this is a password only username is displayed and it is going as a digest
authentication.
Okay.
So very simple guys.
So basic authentication whatever we have same thing in digest authentication also.
But only the different is in the digest authentication.
Encryption is added additionally.
Otherwise both are exactly the same and both are having username and password.
If you simply know username and password we can easily access, uh digest authentication.
And this is a second very basic.
Now the third one API key authentication API key.
So some applications or some API request requires API key.
If I have API key then only we will able to access the API.
Otherwise not.
So I'll try to demonstrate this API open weather map API.
So this is again built in public API which is available.
And basically this API will return the weather conditions in different locations.
We can provide the different locations.
Different cities, different states, and accordingly it will return the weather information.
Current live weather information.
And let me go through the API first.
So just search for Open Weather Map API and you will go to this website.
Okay this is the official website.
Okay so this is weather API.
And if I go back and scroll down it is provided.
So many APIs guys and not everything is free.
Even if you are trying to access with the API, the API will automatically expire after some time.
Okay, so how to access this API?
So we have the URL actually.
So here I don't have.
Okay.
So to access this API we need to first create a API key.
So let's go to API tab here.
Then it will show you what all APIs are currently available so your current weather data is available.
So let's go to API dock.
Okay.
Now you can see which is given the lot of documentation.
And if I scroll down mainly there are three APIs are considered here.
Let me increase the page size okay.
There are three API requests.
They are provided if I look at here these are first API.
When I send this API along with the city name, we have to pass as a query parameter along with the
API key.
So this will actually return the current weather condition on this particular city.
And similarly another API request.
Here we can pass city along with the country code.
Then it will all three will do the same job, but only query parameters are different.
Here the first request we need to pass city along with the API key.
And the second request we need to pass city name country code along with the API key.
The third request we have to pass city name, state code, and country code along with the API key.
So these are three different type of query parameters we have to pass.
But ultimately the response is exactly the same.
Okay.
So if I take this particular API request what is the thing we need.
City name.
Any way we can pass some randomly.
Any city but API keys is most important.
So to access this API we need to create a API key.
So how we can create this API key.
We can just click on this API key.
And what we're saying it is just asking to sign into your account.
So when you sign into the account it will create a API key.
As soon as you sign into this account it will create a API key.
And that is the key we have to pass.
As part of this API.
ID is a key key name.
And here we need to pass the value of the API key.
So to create an API key just login is required.
Okay.
So once you click on uh if you don't have email, if you already have email ID password you can provide
here.
Otherwise you can just click on the create an account and provide your details.
Then create account and login.
As soon as you log in to this application it will show you API key.
Okay that's it.
So I already logged in this in a very long back.
I already captured the API key.
I have this API key with me.
I'll just try to use it.
You guys can create your own API key, or you can use my own API key which I will provide.
Just by signing in you will able to see the API key.
And this process is not the same for all kinds of applications.
Every type of application is having their own process to create event tokens, API keys Authentications
different applications are having different procedures, so you need to ask the developers or about
the documentation procedure and everything.
So then only you will know how we can create all these keys.
Okay.
So once you log in so you will able to see the API key.
So we need to extract that key.
And we can use it to send this request for this API.
So what I have done, I already created one API key.
So you can see this is my API key.
And key is app ID and the value is this one.
And when I add this API key that will be part of the query parameters.
So if I look at this API request also where we are passing this app id app API key as part of the query
parameter, right?
Even city is also part of the query parameter.
App ID is also part of the query parameter, so these two will be automatically added to the query parameters.
Okay, so let's see how we can send the request with the API key.
So this is a request URL I'm going to send.
Let me copy this.
And I already send this.
You can just go to API key authentication.
So here this is my URL.
And here we need to pass the name of the city.
Currently I pass Delhi.
The value is hard coded.
And if you want to create a separate variable for maintaining the country name or city name, you can
create a variable that you can refer here.
But currently I just hard coded the value and app ID here.
You can directly hard code the value.
Whatever API key you generate.
You can directly place it here, but that is not the best practice.
What you can do, you can just go to authorization and select the API key here okay.
And API key authorization is there.
Select it.
And once you selected this API key it will show you the simple form here.
And the key is app ID.
So this is not a user defined it exactly the same key we have to pass because as per as per the URL
request, app ID is the exact key we have to pass.
And this is the value.
Whatever key we generated, we put this value and add to query parameters because the key should be
part of query parameters.
So here we need to pass query parameters as soon as we have done and save it.
You can see this parameter and everything.
And if I go back to the param section here also you can see app ID encoded format it is displaying.
And these are all param query parameters as of now.
App id q and there are three parameters are there.
So app id api key.
So which is taken from this authorization by default.
Okay.
So just we need to select the API key, provide the app ID key value and add to query parameters because
the key should be part of query parameter.
Now once you send this request and now see the body what it is returning and do we need to pass any
body?
No, because it is simply get request.
And we are sending along with the API key.
When I send this you got the response.
Now here if I look at this.
So there are two API keys.
Actually this is the disabled okay.
This is not required.
So this is additional.
This is not equal.
This is a disabled actually.
Let me add once again.
Suppose if you remove from here.
No authentication.
Now let me save it.
Go back to the parameters.
Now you can see these are the default.
Are there so few app ID.
And here also I put curly braces API key.
So from where this API coming from have you created anywhere else.
No.
Right.
So this API should come from authorization.
So here we need to select a API key and app ID and provide the API add query parameter and save it.
So now whatever API key we provided here.
So that will be substituted here because this is referring.
So this is by default created by the postman okay.
We can simply ignore this.
This query parameters are automatically added.
We have not added.
the postman has got added and these two are the actual two query parameters we are passing.
Okay.
Now let us send this request and this is the response.
And if I look at here how we will know whether this response is correct or not.
What we can verify here.
And we are passing some city Delhi.
Right.
And we should validate the Delhi is present or not somewhere it should be here you can see Delhi is
there.
So whichever city we can pass there.
So that will return the weather condition.
And along with the name you can also see the time zone country okay and other detailed information.
Detailed weather information will be shown here and any country can pass.
Okay.
Let me just pass some other.
Sorry not country.
City.
Just pass something called Chennai send.
Yeah.
Now you can see the Chennai and let me change something.
Hyderabad.
Okay.
Perfect.
So now we got the weather information specific to that particular city.
So this is how we can simply pass API key authorization and to create an API key.
There will be different processes in different type of applications.
So we need to know that information from the developer itself.
It should be single basis here.
No this API key.
Just a moment.
It is giving an error.
No it is still working but it is taking from here not here actually.
So one second.
Let me check this.
Okay, I think this we don't need it.
We can just remove this also.
So because this API is taken here and I send this still you are getting the response.
So actual thing is because we have added API key here.
As soon as we have added this API key we send the query parameters we added.
Right.
So that is the reason in the parameters this API has got added.
So additionally we don't need to add app ID.
So as soon as you send here uh authentication is done.
But city we have to pass city we need to pass here okay.
So it is accepting but it should not accept actually.
So API key we have added here.
Suppose if you are not added okay so query parameters we added that is a part of the query parameters.
But here it is not displaying.
And if you want to see that query parameter also as part of the URL.
So then you can create another one here.
Query parameter app id.
And then you can specify.
It's not there actually.
So app ID.
Send this.
And still it is working.
So just for displaying here uh we are adding it.
Otherwise even if you are not adding this also still it is working.
Still it is working fine.
But don't try to do here directly.
Go to authorization and select the API key from here.
And that is automatically reflected as part of query parameters okay.
All right.
So this is API key authentication.
Now What is the next.
So we have sent this is weather API.
So there are multiple APIs are there.
So if you want once you created your API key you can explore these three.
Also if I go to this URL you can find this three APIs.
But all APIs are required API key.
So how we will get the API key.
Just login into the application, create your own account sign in.
Then immediately it will create a new API key, right?
So the next one is bearer token.
This is something different.
Token authentication bearer token.
So we already seen one API in the last class go rest API right.
So go rest API required bearer token and even books API which we have seen in the last class.
Even that is also required bearer token.
Have you guys remember.
So if I go back see books API.
So we have created the token, right?
So the same token we are used in other even submit order.
Also how we can pass token authorization bearer token.
Here we need to add access token.
And similarly we also also seen go rest API.
Go rest I think go rest API doesn't need any authorization.
Okay, so only books API is required.
Authorization token authorization.
So we will see one more API.
Uh here I have something called GitHub related API.
So GitHub is also having their own APIs.
And to access those APIs we need to create a bearer token or token.
So this is the API request actually.
So let me send this API request.
If I go back and see again guys can you see my screen.
So this is all part of the documentation, guys.
Okay.
So which token is used for which API.
That is all information.
We need to get it from the developers.
And everything is should be part of the documents at the time of testing.
Because here we have taken some demo APIs in internet and I have referred so many documentations and
accordingly.
So I know what kind of API is required, what kind of token or everything.
Uh, I think yeah, go rest API.
Yes, exactly.
And the collection level we specified.
Yeah, you are right.
I forgot it so you can see go rest API is also required token.
So even in the go rest API also we just successfully log in and we created our own token right.
Same thing.
So now let's see how to create the token for accessing GitHub APIs.
So if I go back to the GitHub API bearer token.
So here I have added some bearer token.
So for example uh let me remove this.
No authentication.
Now I'm sending this Get request.
Basically what this URL will do.
This will return the repositories GitHub repositories in which are created with my account.
Everyone is having their own GitHub account, right.
So with your GitHub account, whatever the token you created.
So by using that token it will return the repositories from your account.
So when I run this request it is saying requires authentication for not for unauthorized because this
URL or request is required this request is required token authentication.
So we need to create a token.
So how to create a token.
And if you provide the token here let me take Bearer token.
And here my bearer token I provided.
And now if I send this request, it will return the repositories, all the repositories, whatever you
created in your GitHub account.
And if you want to see the login name, you can see this is my login GitHub account login.
And this is the ID of the every repository having some ID, even the name.
Also it will display.
You can see this is the name of the repository okay.
And you can see that.
So this is these are all repository URLs everything it will display here okay.
But to access this request or API we need to create the token okay.
So let me show you how we can create this token.
So to create this token first we need to go to GitHub account login github.com.
And I already logged in.
So how to create a new token.
So to create the token you need to go to settings.
and in the settings you can just go to Developer Settings.
And here in the developer settings you have Personal Access tokens.
Open it and take the tokens classic.
So once you take this here you can see this token is already created.
Now if you want to create a new token you can just go here generate a new token.
Classic.
Take this.
Classic beta is still not implemented, so generate new token.
Now again it will ask you the password.
Let me log into this.
Okay.
So once you log in so here you need to provide the token.
So I call it as a my token one.
And how much time you need this expiration date you can specify.
And with this token what you are going to do.
You want to access all your repository.
So you need a need privileges on this particular token.
So I'm just selecting repo.
So this will give you accessing commit status all the repository related actions you can do by taking
these privileges.
And rest of them we don't need.
Simply click on Generate token.
So now you can see the token is got created.
So now you need to use this token in your postman.
So I'll just try to replace this.
This is the new token which we have created.
Save it.
And now send the request.
So you will get all the repositories which are available in your GitHub account.
So this is the process we followed in GitHub.
But different applications are having different type of approaches to create your token.
So earlier we have seen go rest is a different process.
Books API is a different process.
Now GitHub is a different process.
This is token bearer token authentication okay.
So this is one type of authentication.
Now finally we have OAuth two authentication.
OAuth one and OAuth.
There are two types of this OAuth one is old one.
Old architecture.
OAuth two is the latest one.
So this is a little bit complex.
But we will try to create OAuth two authentication.
And we will see one API.
So there are so many APIs are there.
So you can just if you want access Google Maps OAuth two is required.
And even LinkedIn APIs and payment systems like PayPal APIs, PayPal.
If you want access there is worth two authentication required Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn.
All these applications mostly using OAuth two Authentications okay, because this is more secure when
you compare with other type of Authentications.
Okay.
So I'll show you how we can create OAuth two authentication for any for by taking some application,
some API, and we will see how we can do that.
So first of all, we will try to understand the steps.
What are the steps are required in OAuth two authentication.
So what are the main things we required in order to authentication.
So later I will explain how those authentications will work.
First let us focus how we can use those authentication within the postman tool.
Okay.
So when I use OAuth two authentication we need to follow certain steps.
The first important step we need mainly three things guys in OAuth two authentication OAuth two authentication.
We need three things.
First important thing is client ID.
First important thing is client ID.
Client ID second thing is client secret.
This is also a kind of a code we will generate.
Third thing is a token.
So these are the three important things which we need to focus when I use OAuth two authentication.
Okay.
So client ID client secret we have to generate manually.
Manually we need to generate how we can generate these two manually.
First we need to log in to the application.
And with the developer account.
Then we need to create some application some app we need to create.
And as soon as you created an app it will automatically gives you client ID and client secret.
So these are the steps we need to do manually.
So how to capture client ID client secret.
We need to log in to the application.
And we need to create one application app.
And with that app client ID client secret will be created.
That is a step number one we need to do manually.
So once you know client ID and client secret then by using these two we have to create a token.
This is automatic process within the postman.
So if you know client ID and client secret, by using these two we can automatically create a token.
This is automation process within the postman.
So once you get the token now you have client ID client secret.
By using these two we create a token also.
So by using these three we can send a OAuth request OAuth authentication.
So auth authentication requires three parameters.
Client ID is required.
Client secret is required.
Token is required.
Client ID client secret.
We will create manually whereas token we will create automatically within the postman.
Once you get the token then we will use client ID, client id token, all three things while sending
the request using OAuth authentication.
This is the process.
Okay.
Now I'll show you step by step.
Listen very carefully.
For that.
What I'm going to do is I have taken one application OAuth two authorization.
So this is a Get request basically.
So basically what this will do it will fetch different images.
There is a website called Imgur.
Let me open this.
And search for this.
Go to this.
Yeah I think not this one.
API Imgur.com.
Yeah.
So this is a URL.
So when you go to this URL uh sorry not this one.
Type only this one.
Yeah.
So this is the actual website.
So first of all we need to log in to the first step.
We need to log in to this application.
First step we need to log in to the application.
As I said three important things right.
What are the three important things.
First one we need to create client ID client secret.
And after that we need to generate the token.
And then we have to send a request.
So we need to do this step by step.
Listen carefully.
So first thing so when I send this URL let me go to postman.
And I will create a new request here.
Okay.
So I'll name it as OAuth.
OAuth two authentication.
So what is the request I'm going to do here is I'm going to do this get request.
Okay.
So this is a Get request I'm going to do within the postman.
And I'm saving it and directly send this I'm not providing any authorization.
Nothing I'm simply send this.
So what it is saying authentication required unauthorized for zero one another is authentication is
required.
So we are not getting the response.
So but to send the request we need OAuth two authentication.
So if you go back to the authorization you can see here OAuth 2.0.
This is the latest one.
So this one no one is using now because after getting this OAuth 2.0 and as soon as you select this
over 2.0, uh you will see something here.
You can see a big form here, a lot of things we need to pass here.
We don't know any tokens as of now.
So configure token.
So here there are so many details which we have to pass.
So later I will show you this okay.
So far there is no authorization nothing.
So by sending the request we will get a no authorization okay.
So step number one what we need to do here is we need to first go to.
Okay.
So let me close this.
Okay.
So this is the request we send.
We got 401 unauthorized.
So first thing we need to sign up with the application.
So this is the URL.
So we need to open this URL and sign up with your account using your email address.
And create username and password.
And it will ask you some additional verification steps by sending OTP and everything.
Just do this.
So here I shown you the screenshot also.
So click on the sign up button and it will ask you to register or continue with the Google or continue
with the Apple.
So I'm using continue with the Google existing Google account.
And if you're not, you can create your new account with this and click on the sign in.
So this is step number one.
So we need to sign in to the application.
So here you can see your username.
So I already signed in to this application.
So here I can see my username here okay.
So this is your home page of your application.
So once you log in to this application.
So next thing is we need to register an app means we need to create one app inside the applications.
Our own app we need to create to register our own application, we need to open this URL again one more
time.
So why I'm not able to copy this?
Just a second.
Yeah.
So I just copy this URL and open this.
Https.
So because I already logged in.
So here you can see your email address username.
So this is the form you will get register and application.
So here you need to fill some details.
You can provide whatever name you want.
Application name you can provide select OAuth two authorization.
And here this is very important.
Authorization callback URL application website.
These details normally the developers will provide you because you don't know all these things.
The only few things we need to pass application name.
We have to pass OAuth two authentication callback URL is must and these are optional application website,
email.
You can pass description.
You can pass and you can select this robot.
Simply submit it.
So once you submitted this form you will get client ID and client Secret.
You will get a client ID and client secret once you submitted the form.
So here application name you can give like postman or whatever you want.
Authorization type.
And this is the callback URL.
I will share this document anyway, so all the details are available in the document.
You can pass it.
This is the callback URL you need to pass, then email address.
Also you need to pass then submit the button.
So once you fill this form this is the form.
So once you fill it everything simply submit it.
So once you submitted then automatically the client ID client secret.
Both both are generated here.
So once you register with this form, you will get a client ID client secret.
These are very important.
You need to keep it with you.
Okay.
So first step we have achieved.
So as I said three things are important right.
For OAuth two authentication.
What is the first thing we need to capture the client ID.
Second is what client secret.
So we capture these two from here.
So what is the next thing we required.
Third thing.
By using this client ID client secret we need to generate the token.
So we have done the first two manually.
By logging into application we fill the form submitted client ID client secret is generated.
Now we need to create the token.
So to create the token we need to go to the postman.
The token we will create automatically inside the postman.
So how to create the token automatically inside the postman.
So to create we need to go to postman.
In the postman inauguration, we will select OAuth to authorization.
And here don't touch this current token.
So this is empty as of now.
Go to configure new token form here.
Here you need to fill all these details so you can give any name here.
Authorization code select here.
Grant type is authorization code callback URL.
So at the time of filling the registration form, whatever callback URL we provided same callback URL
we need to provide auth URL access token URL.
So these details normally the developers will provide you you don't know these anything before.
And here the client ID and client secret.
We need to pass okay.
Client ID and client secret.
So these are the two places we need to pass and scope state.
Nothing is required.
So once you provided these details Now scroll down.
Here you can see one button called create.
Get a new access token.
So once you click on this button it will generate the access token.
How it will generate as soon as you go to the postman and selected OAuth two and fill all the details
in the form token name, callback, URL, auth, url, everything you provided.
Then once you click on this submit get new access token, then what will happen?
You will get a one pop up window like this.
Get a new access token and basically it is asking for authenticate via browser and parallelly as soon
as you open the window parallelly, you will see this window also one more time it will ask you to login
to the website.
Okay.
And once you provide your email password here, then click on allow button one more time.
Then authentication will be successful.
Then you will get one more window like this.
Click on the proceed and after that the token will be generated within the postman, it will again go
back to your postman and here you will see this window.
This is called access token, which is generated as soon as you get this form, click on Use Token.
So once you click on this use token, then if I go back to the postman I already done this step.
So as soon as you click on this get a new access token.
I'm just clicking on it, see what will happen.
So when I click on it see here it will open like this.
So how this process will be continued once you provide your email address password here and click on
allow button.
So as soon as you click on yellow button then this process has got completed.
But it is not asking me to provide email password because I already provided earlier.
So once it is done, just hold on for few seconds automatically the token is got generated.
Now just click on Use token.
Once you click on this, my token is a name and token is not generated.
Simply use token.
As soon as you have done it, go above here in the drop down.
See there are my two.
My tokens are there.
One is previously I created.
Another one is now.
Just now we created.
If we select this one, this is the latest one just now.
Whatever created that will automatically pop up here okay.
So once you get it now save everything.
If I look at here now we have a token.
We have a client ID, we have a client secret.
Everything is there.
So now we are ready to send a request with OAuth 2.0 authentication okay.
Now again if you go back to the steps, very simple.
What I have done I have done all these steps and then click on Use Token.
After that select the token from the drop down box, whatever is selected.
And one more time test the API.
So now go to the postman once again and again sending the request.
So authorization OAuth 2.0.
Everything is got provided here.
Now this time I'm sending the same request.
Just observe.
See this.
This time successfully done.
So previously we got 401.
Now we got 200 okay.
So success that means authentication is successful with this request.
Okay.
So this much process we have to create OAuth two authentication.
And again this will be different from one application to another applications.
But ultimately we need three things.
One is client ID client secret is mandatory.
And once you get client ID client secret then we have to generate the token within the postman.
And after that we can directly send the request.
Okay.
So this is all about uh I think it will be there around seven days.
It will be there 7 to 10 days.
It will be there.
You can create any number of authentications, any number of tokens.
No problem.
Currently I have two tokens I already created.
So you can create any number of tokens.
You can create any number of apps.
Also, if you log in to the application here you can create a number of registrations.
But the details are very important.
So I already given the details in the document.
So please follow those details exactly the same and few details.
If you want you can change here.
So for example application name you can change but authorization callback URL you cannot change same
callback URL you have to use and email address.
If you want you can change it.
You create your own email ID and after submission client ID, secret ID will be generated and don't
use this client ID secret ID which I have created.
You create your own client ID and client secret and after that go to the postman.
Select this authentication and fill these all the details in the form callback URL.
Auth URL is same.
Everything is same as you don't change anything here except the client ID and secret ID.
Everything is same and after that submit the request and then get a new access token.
It will authenticate login here, allow login and then it will be successful here.
Just wait for few seconds.
As soon as you have waited here you will get another screen with the token.
Then click on Use Token and then automatically the token will be there in your postman itself.
And after that you can send the request.
It will go successfully with the OAuth two authentication.
Okay, so all these details will be provided by the developers.
We don't have any information with us, only these details will be there at the time of development.
So at the time of developing these APIs developers will know exactly these details.
So they will document it at the time of developing these APIs.
They will document, so they will provide everything.
So we need to ask more information.
So then they will provide accordingly.
We need to do configurations and we need to do the testing.
Okay this is OAuth two.
I have taken one simple application here.
We can just do one round of practice here.
So there is no situation.
Having two types of authentication is not possible.
Only one authentication at a time is possible.
It's not possible either token or API key, or it can be OAuth two or bearer token at a time.
Only one authentication is possible.
There is no possibility to have two authentications at any one request.
Okay, so I'll share these documents and try to do one round of practice.
So basic auth digest authentication token authentication API authentication OAuth authentication.
Indication so depends upon your applications in the real time.
So we need to ask more information about the developers.
And then they will provide the required details.
And accordingly you need to plan.
Even developers also do the same thing depends on the requirement and design.
So our job is only testing.
We don't know how they have developed what they have used inside.
Okay.
Basically the input is what our requirement and design.
So based on the requirement the design developer they implement.
But at the time of implemented implementation there are some technical details they will maintain.
So until unless we know those technical details we cannot test our APIs.
So we need to get that information from the developers.
And then we will use it for our testing.
Okay.
So now let me just go through at very high level how exactly these authentications works and we don't
know exactly how exactly internal things work, but at very high level I'll go through.
What are the main differences between these three authentications?
Just a moment.
I'll share a small screenshot so that you will understand exactly how these things will be different.
Just a second.
Fine.
So we can just look at this.
Can you see this?
So I just added four different type of authentication.
So based on this you can just understand it very high level exactly how these things will work.
So in basic in basic authentication digest authentication is almost the same.
And sometimes it is also called as a preemptive authentication.
In rest assured we call it as a preventive authentication.
So almost same.
So how exactly the basic authentication works.
So we will request the resource and it will ask the username and password.
So once you provide a username and password the server will send the resource simple direct.
So this is our client machine server machine.
We are asking for the resource.
Then it will ask for the username and password.
You provide the username and password and then return the resource.
Same basic authentication and then digest.
Authentication is also same.
The only difference is in the basic authentication.
Username and password will go as it is without encryption, but in digest authentication will go with
encrypted format.
So that is a difference.
Now the next one is token authentication.
Let me maximize this.
So exactly the token authentication works.
So user logs in and sends encrypted tokens.
And this is again manual process.
We do token creation.
And then whatever the token we captured in the encrypted format from the application we are sending
the request along with the token.
And then from the server we will get the return resource.
So first two things to generate the token we do manual process.
And sometimes there will be some API request available for generating the token.
Also depends.
So this is token authentication is simple.
We log in to our application, generate the token that will return the token to us, and we can send
the request along with the token and from the server we will get the resource resource in the sense
the response.
This is token authentication.
And in authentication there are multiple steps are there.
So first as a client authorization request will send.
Authorization will be granted.
So what exactly this process is sign up process.
So at the time of creating auth authentication we are first signing up to the application.
Right.
That is a process we do manually.
So with the Gmail account or whatever you just log into application and it will give the access.
And once you log into application what you will do, you will create one application app to get the
client ID and secret ID.
So that is a process authorization grant or server will give the access token.
Actually these two we will do through automation.
So even access token will be created within the postman, right?
By sending the request, by taking client ID, secret ID from the first and second step, we will do
three and fourth step.
And once we get an access token also, then we.
Finally we will send the request along with the access token and we will get the response.
So this is a process OAuth authentication process.
At very high level.
But again there are some detailed steps are there.
But that is not needed for now.
And the last one API key authentication.
So in API key what exactly we are doing here we are creating the key manually.
Right.
And once you created the key we will get the key.
So these two again manual process.
So once you get the key we are sending the request along with the key.
And then the key is authorized and we will get the resource.
This is API key Authorization.
This is a big authorization.
It's very simple at very high level workflows.
So I'll share this document also with you so you guys can keep it with you.
So Grant is nothing but simple.
Once you sign up your application you are able to access everything, right?
So that means it is granted to you to create an app, or it is granted to you to register something.
That is a simple meaning of grant here.
These are simple terminologies.
Guys don't give bigger meanings to that.
So just try to understand these type of authentications so it will be differ from application to application.
So they are not constant things.
So because we need to just know what exactly it is, how it is going to work.
But the configuration setting up environments will keep changing from application to applications in
the real time.
But in the real time applications, most of the times you don't see basic authentications.
Mostly you see what application, or what authentication and API authentication and token authentication
is.
These three Authentications are most popular in real time applications.
And if you go with LinkedIn or Facebook or Twitter, these applications mostly use OAuth Authentications
OAuth Authentications.
Okay.
And suppose if you go with the Google Maps API and suppose travel applications like Ola, Uber.
So these applications are internally using token authentication.
And API authentication is also sometimes they use okay.
So just do one round of practice I'll share the documents and everything step by step.
Try your own.
And next class we will continue further.
Yes.
So you have to explain that.
So if they ask about what the two workflow we can simply explain how we can explain.
First, you need to sign up to the application.
Now you register it the details with the callback URL and other things.
Then you will get a client ID and client secret.
Now, by using the client ID and client secret, you will generate the token.
And once you get the token, then you will send the request final request along with the client ID client
secret client callback URL along with your token.
That is the actual workflow of auth two.
The process.
If you take any other application, most of the process will be same, but generating client ID client
secret will be a little bit different.
But once you have client ID client secret, rest of the process is exactly the same.
Okay, so that's all for today's session.
I'll stop here and we will continue in the next class.