So today we'll learn a few important concepts in postman.
So first thing we will see how we can execute a API request in whichever order you want in the collection.
So for example, in the collection I have created 5 to 10 different type of request.
So I want to execute all the request in proper order right.
So by default, in whichever order we created in the same order, all the request will be executed.
Suppose if you want to configure or if you want to customize the order of the request, you can do that.
So we will see that part.
And after that we will discuss about data variables means what how we can take the variables from the
external file and how we can achieve data driven testing in postman.
Okay.
So to demonstrate these topics I'm taking one API.
This is also a public live API which is called books API.
So what is exactly this book's API will do and we will see what are the URLs we have to send, what
type of request we can send, what type of response body we have to send.
Also we will see different type of validations and everything.
So first let us try to explore this API, what exactly it is and how it is going to work.
So to access this books API so we need to create a token.
Okay.
This API is also required a bearer token so that we need to create.
So to create this API token so simply they already given a URL.
So if you want to access this API and you can just go to Google it.
And you can simply say simple books API documentation.
So you can just search for it.
And you will find this simple books API.
This is already maintained by postman itself.
So if I go back to this simple books API and here not this one Documentation.
You can see more information about this API.
So already there.
Yeah.
So here they are demonstrating book API documentation.
So API status list of books and list of books with invalid limit.
Get single book order book that doesn't have stock.
So there are different type of request they have provided here.
So I just simplified this documentation.
And I just made my own documentation by taking few types of request which we can use it for our data
driven testing also.
So first thing we need to create a barrier token to access all kinds of request from this books API.
So how we can create this.
So we need to send one post request.
So by taking this URL.
So we need to send one Post request.
And when I say post request definitely there should be a response.
Body is made right.
So how are we going to know which API read needs what type of authentication.
That is a part of the documentation you don't know.
So only the input is documentation.
So the documentation will say whether authentication is required or not.
Even in the simple books API, not every request is needed a bearer token.
So few requests we can directly send without token.
But some request we need a token.
So that is also mentioned in the API documentation.
So that already mentioned in this document I'll show you that okay.
So first first thing to create a bearer token.
Again the creation of the token the process will be different.
It is not the same process for every type of API.
So in the last class I have shown you go rest API right?
So for go rest API we have created token in the different way.
So by logging with the G, GitHub or Gmail we created our own token.
But here to access to create bearer token for books API is totally different.
So we no need to log in or we no need to sign up any site.
Simply we have to send one post request along with this request body.
Okay, there is a api API client.
So this is the post URL we need to send along with the client name and client email.
So this data we need to pass.
And once we send this post request it will give you token.
So this will automatically generate a token with this client name and email address.
And again if you want to create another token with the same client name email, you cannot do that.
So with the same awesome one client name one client email, you can create only one token.
If you want to create another token, you need to change the client name and client email.
Okay, these two things are required.
So when I send this post request with this URL along with this post request body, client name and client
email.
So this will generate token.
So which is a bearer token which we are to use for sending different type of request okay.
So here this is a document.
You can consider this as a requirement also.
So client name and client email we should pass.
Then only we will able to get the token.
Even the token is also valid only for seven days.
After seven days you can create another token with the same details or by changing another details.
Okay, suppose uh, with this client ID, client name, client email, you already created one token,
but again you are trying to create another token, right?
So then you will get this error status code 409 API client already registered.
So we'll get this error.
If you are trying to create another token with the same client name and same client email.
So this is a simple documentation is given to create bearer token.
So once it is created the token we can use the token for other request.
Now let us go and see what are other type of request we can send to this API.
Now check API status.
So this is the first thing uh what this API status will do.
This will basically retrieve the current status of the books API.
So whether it is ready to access the data or not, so that information will be returned when I send
this Get request.
So we no need to pass anything.
Simply we send the Get request.
This will return the current status of the books API.
Now the second one is list of books.
Suppose what are the books are available in the database.
If you want to list out all the books information then you can send another Get request with this URL.
And again we can pass two query parameters.
They are optional.
Suppose if I send this request which will return all the books which are available in the database.
Okay.
Suppose if you want to filter the data, suppose I want to get only fiction books or fiction related
books or non fiction related books.
I can add a query parameter like type equal to fiction or type equal to non fiction.
You can add that query parameter.
So the data will be filtered.
So it will print only fiction related books.
And similarly suppose when I send this request let's say I have 100 books in my database.
I don't want to print all 100 books.
I don't want to get a hundred books in the response.
I just I want to get some limited number of books.
Then I can also add another query parameter called limit.
And here I can specify one to max 20 number.
So these two are the query parameters which we can pass along with this get request.
Again these are all optional parameters.
If you want you can pass it or else you can capture all the books as part of response.
Now the next one is get a single book.
So the third request will return all the books.
But here this will return a specific book information single book.
So for example, uh, we need to pass a book ID, so every book is having some ID.
So when I pass the book ID so let's say one, two, three, four.
Something like this.
Uh, that will return the details of that particular book.
So that is get single book request.
This is also get request and now submit an order.
Suppose there are some books in my database.
Now I want to order a book.
So then you can send a Post request.
So I need to submit an order so we can send this post request along with the request body.
So whenever you send a Post request there should be a request body and which book you are going to order
that you need to specify.
So book ID you need to pass and also customer name.
Also you need to pass means your name whoever is submitting the order.
So his name should be mentioned in this request payload.
So we need to send this post request along with this request body.
This will go and create a new order for this particular book.
So once you send this post request along with the book ID customer name, what is the response you will
get?
You will get the order ID as part of response.
So this is the main important request we are going to send.
So this will create a new order.
And once it is created an order it will return order ID.
Later we will use this order ID for other request.
Also we will try to achieve the chaining process here.
And first three APIs to check the API status or listing all the books or listing a specific book.
These three requests we don't need any token, so we can directly send the request and we can capture
the books related data.
But for submitting the order means creating the new order right and deleting the order or updating the
order details.
We need bearer token authentication.
So whatever token we created by using the first request, we use the token to create an order to update
the order and also to delete the order.
So submit an order is nothing but a simple A, creating a new order by specifying book id and customer
name.
So these two are mandatorily required.
And what is the response you will get?
Order ID you will get.
So once you get an order ID, we will save this order ID in the variable collection variable or environment
variable wherever you want, so that we can refer the same order ID we will use in further request.
Now another request get all orders.
So to get all orders along with order which we already created earlier.
So this is a Get request we can send.
So this will return all the orders whatever orders I created just now and also previous orders all the
orders will be displayed.
Suppose if we want to get specific order, let's say I have created ten orders earlier and I want to
get a specific order information.
Then we need to pass order ID here.
So here we need to pass order ID which we already captured earlier.
Right.
So that order ID we already stored in variables.
So we will refer that order ID here.
So this get request URL will send the order details.
So this is also get request.
Now I want to update the order.
So for example what I can update in the order.
We cannot update the order ID book ID and everything.
Only customer information I can update.
So I can pass customer name as a parameter or as a request body.
To this patch request you can send patch request or put request.
Anything is okay.
Patch request is allowed.
Put request is also allowed.
So we will see patch request also.
So patch is put as almost same as I already told you in the previous classes.
What is the main difference between put and patch?
Put is nothing but what we can update the entire record or entire resource.
Patch is nothing but what we can update a partial information about the resource.
So here we are just updating only customer name.
We can simply send patch request along with the order id as a parameter.
So this will go and update the order and then delete order simple.
So we can select the send the delete request along with the order id as a parameter.
So this will go and delete the order.
So this is how the books API works.
So I captured all different type of request parameters are required.
What is the response you will get.
So everything you will get it from this document.
So now we will try to do practically step by step.
And also we will see how we can what are the different prerequisite schemes.
We can add and post response scripts.
Also we will try to add for every request we will see step by step.
So multiple things I will show you by taking help of this API.
Okay.
First let us create a collection and let us create all different type of request.
And then I'll go through one by one.
So let's go to postman.
So here I already created books API collection, so I'll take another copy of it.
So we can create another copy of this.
Simply click on three dots and take another one duplicate.
So we can find one option called duplicate here.
So then it is created a new copy.
So I'll try to rename this.
Let's say today is what day six day six underscore books API okay so now I'm trying to use this day
six underscore books API.
See here.
So I have already created so many API's.
So total nine number of requests are there.
So all lines are already created here.
So let me go through one by one.
So how we have created what I have created.
And also I will try to execute one by one.
So what is the first request is creating token.
First we need to create a token with this API authentication.
So what is a Post request we need to send.
This is a URL.
We need to send API client along with the client name and client email address.
Okay, suppose if you want to create multiple tokens later whenever you send a request, then you want
to create a new token.
So every time you have to send a different email address name is fine, but custom email address every
time you need to send a different email address randomly, you can create and you can pass.
Okay, so let us try to create this request and see whether how it is going to generate the token.
And one more thing I will do here.
As soon as it is created the token.
That same token is required for other request.
So I will store the token ID in a variable so that I can also refer the token variable in another request.
So the chaining concept is also implemented in build.
So first go to the first request.
Create a token and see how we have implemented this request.
This is basically a Post request and this is the URL.
And if I look at here we don't need any authorization for this.
As I said this is a first request through which we will create a token.
So we don't need any authorization.
Simply send this Post request.
And what is a body.
We have to specify client name and client email is required.
And again I told you suppose if you send this request multiple times you need to send different email
IDs.
So you cannot send the same email ID which is already registered earlier.
So what I'm doing here I go to scripts here and the Pre-request scripts.
I'm just creating a random email ID because the Pre-request script will execute before sending the request,
right?
So here I'm just creating a random text, and with this text I have added gmail.com.
This is generated email and that generated email I am storing into email variable okay I'm setting one
new variable called email.
And this particular email I'm referring into this body here I think last class also we have seen this.
I think I don't need to explain again.
So in the scripts go to Pre-request script.
So when the pre-request script will execute before sending the request.
So variables also we will create before sending the request.
So we need to keep that code inside the Pre-request.
Inside the Pre-request I just generated the random text.
With that I generated one email id and I created one variable.
The name is email, and in that variable I'm storing this randomly generated email and the same email
id I am referring inside the body.
Instead of hard coding this email address, I'm just randomly generating it and passing it to the client
email.
Okay, so whenever you send this request, you no need to worry about email ID so that it will generate
email ID randomly.
It will create a access token.
Okay.
There's a this is Pre-request script, so don't we need a different.
Uh, no.
Client name is.
You can have the same client name, so this is not needed.
So even if you duplicate this, no problem.
But email address should be different.
Okay.
And again, if you want to change the client name you can change it.
You can just go to the script.
You already created some text right.
You can pass this text as part of this body here directly.
You can pass the text because there's a simple variable only right.
So you can pass it.
But here according to this requirement client name can be duplicated.
But client email should be different okay.
So now a body are created here.
And in the script I created some variable to generate the random email ID.
And also I'll do one more important thing because this token ID is required for other requests later.
Right.
For submitting order.
Getting the order details, deleting updating so the token is required.
So whatever token is generated with this Post request, I'm going to create another variable in which
I will store the.
I will save the token.
So where I have to write that script, where I have to write it in the post response.
So now go to post response here.
Here I have done it.
So I'm just capturing the JSON response.
Okay.
Let me send this request once I'll show you.
So when I send this request just observe.
See access token is got generated.
So from this particular response from the JSON data I created one collection variable called access
token.
And this value I'm accessing how I'm accessing this value from the JSON data dot access token.
Access token is a field okay.
And with this access token I'm creating one variable called access token.
Okay.
Now you tell me once the request is successful.
How many variables we created total?
How many variables we created for this request?
Two variables we created in the Pre-request script.
We created email address and the post response.
We created another variable which will store access token.
So let us see whether it is created or not.
If I go back and see the variables here under collection, you can see there are two variables.
Email is got created.
Access token is also got created.
So these two variables I will refer.
Email is not needed to refer but access token.
We have to refer in further request okay fine.
So I will explain this later.
For now I just comment this.
I'll come to this.
Okay.
So everybody's understood about the first request how to generate the access token.
Simple.
We need to send a Post request with this URL by specifying the client name and client email.
And that will generate the token.
So currently this token has got generated which is already saved inside the access token.
Variable collection variable.
Okay, done.
Now let us move on to the next request.
I just save it.
Now let's go back to the next one.
So what is the next request?
Here is once you created access token check API status.
So whether it is ready to access or not simple one get request we can send.
So I just created here status of books API second one.
So I'm just simply sending the status of this.
And I don't need any authorization.
Nothing.
And go to the scripts and go in the scripts.
I have added something here but I don't need this for now, I just comment.
I'll come to this part later.
So there are no scripts are required here.
I'm simply sending this request and it will simply say okay, okay means we are ready to access.
We can access books API okay.
So simple status returning Okay, so I don't have any validations for this.
A simple, straightforward status.
Getting the status from the API.
We can send the Get request.
So we don't need to do anything with this now.
List of books.
So what are the books are available in the database.
So we can simply send this Get request.
So this will actually return all the books available in the database.
Now go back to the list of books.
This is another request.
List of books okay.
Now let me tell you what exactly it is.
So when I send this get request directly, just observe what happens here when I send this.
So now you can see how many books are listed with this client ID.
So almost six books are there.
So six books ID name type and available.
So this is the data we have.
And there are two optional query parameters we can pass.
Suppose I currently it is displaying five but I don't want 1 to 6.
I need only two is enough.
So I can add this query parameter called limit.
And how many I need?
Only two I need.
I can just simply say and if you want to write some description here, you can write.
I just written something called optional.
Okay.
So how it is authorized the Get request in the post we just got the token, but where we mentioned to
use it for other request.
So as I said beginning first three requests doesn't need authentication.
See for the books related stuff.
So second, third and fourth these three API requests doesn't need authentication.
So whatever token we created earlier which we are going to use in the submit order, all the orders
single order update order.
So order related information if you want to work on order related information we use authentication
token.
But books related information we can directly capture without having token.
So token is not required.
This particular API.
So for list of books token is not needed for get single book.
Also not not needed only for submit order requires bearer token authentication and also for getting
all the orders.
Also requires bearer token authentication for getting single order.
Also requires bearer token authentication.
Okay, so I already covered this part.
Only three APIs are required.
Authentication.
First three does not required.
Okay, now go back to the postman.
So here let us see about query parameters.
So when I send this box by default it is returning six books.
But I want to apply some query parameters.
And two parameters are supported.
One is limit, another one is type.
Again these parameters are also predefined according to the documentation.
If I go back and see uh list of the books.
So type is one parameter, limit is another parameter okay.
And what can what is the type.
Type can be a fiction or non-fiction.
Limit can be between 1 to 22 is a maximum limit we can pass.
So according to the requirement.
So I can add query parameters under the parameters tab here.
But currently I have added this okay.
But earlier by default you don't see anything here.
You will see under query parameters just empty table.
You can see and even in the URL.
Also can you see any query parameters how we can recognize query parameters in the URL?
How you will know whether the query URL is having query parameters or not?
Yes.
If you see question mark after question mark, whatever is there.
That is called query parameters, which will basically filter the record or filter the response.
Currently we don't have any query parameters.
Now I am adding one query parameters here.
Go to the params under query parameters.
I'm just adding a limit.
So as soon as I added here by default it is selected.
So 1 to 20 you can give anything.
Currently we have only six records.
I'm just saying two only.
Okay, now we can send this request.
Just observe what will happen when I send this request.
See, you will get only two.
And also you notice one thing.
As soon as you have added query parameter here URL is automatically added this here.
So when I update this table automatically, this query URL also automatically updated.
Okay, suppose I already added this query parameter, but I don't want to use this query parameter.
Simply you can uncheck this box and it has got disappear.
And then you will get everything now.
Okay this is how we can use this params tab.
Now I also have another parameter called type.
So what type of book you want.
So fiction non-fiction.
So there are different type of books are there.
I want only fiction.
So I can put this value called fiction.
And now you can send this.
So all fiction related books are displayed and currently limit I just uncheck it.
Now I am also checking this.
Now you can see only two records are there.
According to the query parameters.
Limit is to two, records are displayed and type is equal to fiction.
So type equal to fiction.
So if you if you don't want to use this query parameters again uncheck and simply send it.
Now again everything you will get.
So this is how we can work with the query parameters.
In the description.
You can write whichever description you want because these parameters are optional.
I'm just writing something called optional.
You can mention the description if you want, and if you need this parameter you can just simply select
this checkboxes and this will apply okay.
So when I send this you will get all the records.
Now if I go back here.
So do we need to save anything here under scripts I have added something here.
So I'll just comment this for now and save the request okay.
Now so this is listing of all the books which are available in the A database.
So this is a list of the books.
So this is one API request and we don't need authentication for this for checking API status list of
books and get single book.
Also don't need authentication.
Now if you want to capture specific book then we need to pass path parameter book ID.
We need to pass along with the URL specific book information.
Let's say currently we have 126 books 123456.
We can pass any number as part of book ID.
Now I'm closing this and go back to the single book.
This is another request.
And here I'm passing one as a parameter.
This is path parameter not query parameter.
Only one book will be printed and no authentication required.
No body is required.
Simply send the request and now it is returning the book information.
So what is a book ID we have given is just one, so the limit is also mentioned in the document.
What will happen if we request more than 200?
It will throw an error it will throw an error.
So that is a part of the requirement.
Okay.
So we will not get the response even if you put more than 20.
Also whatever records are there it will display even two ways.
Maybe it will throw an error.
Sometimes it will give you the existing records, all existing records below the 20.
Because suppose you have only ten records, you have given 20.
That means what?
All ten records will be displayed and rest of them are not available, so it will not display.
So that's how it will work.
Sometimes based on the design, API may throw an error.
If they have written some validation on the limit, they can throw an error some other code.
Okay.
Or suppose if you say only ten records are available in a database and you say limit is 20, then existing
ten records will be displayed and rest of another ten records are not available.
So you won't get the data.
So that's how exactly APIs will work.
Okay.
now go to the single book.
So here I provided only one ID so it is giving one.
Similarly I say two here and it will print second book.
So this is the book information name, author type, price, current stock and available.
So these are the details currently we have for the book related information.
Okay.
And I have not added any validations or nothing for now because I want to show you some other topic
here.
So validations are optional.
If you want to add validations you can add it later.
So this is the response I have given.
So what is this API will do.
It will simply return single book information.
And for that we need to pass a book number book ID we have to pass.
So I already added some script here post response.
So for now I just comment this.
I don't have anything.
So this is a single book.
Now for the first three request status of book API.
List of book single book these three APIs doesn't need token, so we already created the token with
the first Post request.
I think we already have the token under collection variable, right?
If I go back to the where it is all variables.
Okay, now we need to select the collection here.
So if I go back to the collection you can see access token is already created.
So now submitting order getting all the order information single order information update delete.
For these request we need to use this token okay.
All right.
So now let us go back to the submit order.
So this is the very important.
So we need to create a new order.
So we need to send a Post request.
So this is a request URL.
And in the body we have to pass two properties.
One is book ID we have to pass book ID in the sense we already know the data.
Right before sending the submit order, just list out all the books so that you will know the ID.
So one, two, six are available in the database.
So I just provided book ID one and I can pass some customer name is equal to John.
You can pass any name.
And this is the request body I will send along with this post request.
And what is the response you will get in the response you will see order ID you will get another details.
Also book related details, but order ID will be dynamically generated so that order ID we have to save
in some other variable.
So let us see how we can send this submit order.
Also, I will show you how we can specify the bearer token authentication.
Go back here and submit order.
This is the Post request which is created and this is the URL authorization is required right.
So let's go to authorization.
Now.
Do you have any parameters required here.
No parameters are there.
So authorization now here I have selected bearer token authentication.
Right.
And when I select bearer token authentication here, you need to provide the token.
And from where I'm accessing this token I already created one variable here right.
Access token.
So this variable I'm trying to access here.
And if you try to directly hardcode this token you can hardcode it.
But that is not the best practice because the same token is used in multiple requests.
In that case, you can create this variable at the beginning and use the same access token in multiple
request.
So what is an advantage of this?
So suppose tomorrow if you create some other token and you can go and change in only one place and on
all other request it will automatically reflected.
So here we need to wait.
I mean this is the way we can access the variable.
So I already have the syntax right.
Curly braces double curly braces variable name and double curly braces.
Closed curly braces.
This is the syntax we need to follow everywhere, even in the request.
Also if you want access the variable.
Same syntax and here also same syntax even in the body.
Also in the first request.
We already seen for getting in the body.
Also if you want to access the variable.
Curly braces okay.
So now go back to the submit order once again.
So authorization I mentioned bearer token.
Access token.
What else we need to specify body in the body I mentioned book ID and also customer name is John.
Now go to the script.
So what exactly we need to do after sending the post request.
This will generate order ID.
So we need to save that order id in some variable so that I can use same order ID in rest of the request.
So for that, where we need to add the script, where we have to add that script, taking the order
ID from the response post request script or pre request script.
Post request script okay.
Now go to the scripts here.
Go back to the prerequisite.
I don't have anything in the prerequisite.
Now go to post response.
Here I'm doing it.
So I'm capturing the response in the JSON data and creating order ID by taking order ID from the response.
So do we have order ID in the collection variable so far?
No.
Only access token we have.
So let me run this request.
Once you send this request now we can see here order is got created.
And here this is the order ID we are capturing.
And now we can see the variable has got created.
See order ID has got created.
Now we use this order ID in another request.
So for that what I have done we captured the JSON data from the response and PM dot collection variable
dot set order id is a variable name and from the JSON data by taking order id JSON path I have written
order id.
So this will actually create a new variable which contains the order ID.
Okay, this is for the next request.
I comment this for now.
So this is the only script I have added for this.
Now save it.
So this will basically will create new order.
So based on the information which we passed here.
So we have order book number one with this customer name.
So it has got created and generated the order ID.
So that is maintained in a different variable.
Right now submit order is successfully done.
So what is the next order is.
Suppose I want to get all the books and specific books.
There are two different requests are there.
So to get all orders not books, all orders.
Because just now we have ordered a book.
So this is a Get request we can send and all order related request required bearer token authentication.
So when I send this get request to get all orders, bearer token is required.
So how?
We will get all other orders.
Get all orders.
And this is a Get request.
And this is the URL.
Authorization is required.
So go to authorization tab.
Again I'm taking bearer token and accessing the token variable which is already there here.
Access token we already created.
So same token I specified here.
And do we need to add any body.
No need because it's a Get request.
Now go to the scripts.
So here I have added some script here pre-request.
We don't need anything but post response.
I have added something.
I just comment this for now.
Save this.
Okay, now this is get all orders.
Let us try to execute this request and see what is the output you will get.
As of now we don't need any parameters, just it will display all the orders.
Send this request.
Do we need any order ID here?
No, because we want to display all the all orders.
Existing orders simply send.
Now we can see.
Currently we have done only one order with the access token.
With the client ID we have done only one single order so far.
Right?
There are N number of books are already available, but how many orders are available so far with this
ID?
Whatever the access token we created with the token, we just created only one order, so it is displaying
only one order.
Here book ID we have done so.
This is the order ID customer name is John.
We have given quantity is one.
So this is the data we got.
So just now we created this order.
Suppose if you want to have another orders again one more time go to submit order okay.
Now you can say book ID two I am giving and say send instead of John.
You can give some other name.
Kennedy okay, now I can send this.
This book is not in the stock.
Try again later.
So I think the customer name should be different.
Let me give a same name again.
Book ID is not available.
It is saying let me try to run this again.
Yeah, book ID two is not there.
So let's say book ID three.
Yeah, it is created.
So book ID three is there.
So now again go back one.
Save this request.
Okay.
Now how many orders we are expecting now.
When I send this request how many orders we are expecting now.
Two orders.
Right.
So when I send this request one more time.
See?
Now we got it.
Two orders.
So this is my first order, and this is my second order.
So both the customer names are same.
John.
Okay, so here we just pass only authorization information bearer token.
And we don't need to pass anything.
Okay.
So this is getting all orders.
Now I want to get single order specific order.
So when I send this request, submit order.
The order information is also saved.
Here you can see this is the order.
So as soon as you created the new order the order ID has got changed.
So this order is referring to the first one or second one, first book or second book.
This is referring to the second book actually.
Okay.
This is referring to the second book.
So this order ID will take here as a parameter because we are getting the single order id.
So this order id whatever is there that is taking here authorization.
Again same bearer token is required and which order we are expecting here first one or second one second
order.
So when I send this single order we are expecting this one.
So book ID three we have ordered.
So this we are expecting okay perfectly done.
Now we need to update the order.
So to update the order I have created one more request patch request I sent.
So patch and order ID, whatever order we mentioned here, the same order ID passed here, and when
a patch request or pull request, we have to send body also what we need to update.
So go to the body now customer name is Carter.
So with this order ID currently what is the name we have customer name we have with this order ID John.
Now I'm trying to update the customer name as Carter.
Authorization is required.
Bearer token, same body and scripts in the scripts.
I just comment this for now.
I don't have anything now I'm sending this request.
Then what will happen?
It will go and update existing order details with the customer name is Scott.
Now just observe.
I'm sending this request.
Now it is updated.
Actually it is saying simply saying no content.
What is saying no content?
Let's go back and see all orders once again.
All orders?
Yeah.
Now we can see it is updated.
Actually it is saying no content means it is already updated.
See the second one is got Scott successfully updated.
Okay, now update order is done.
So in the body we just specify only customer name.
Nothing else even is a no.
Content is saying green color red.
Green is representing successful request is successful.
Okay now let's go back to the last one.
Delete order.
So whatever order ID we have said with this order id with the order id we can delete the order also.
So I can pass order ID again authorization is also required.
Same thing.
And under scripts I have created something here.
Comment the first one and why I have created these two.
What these two statements will do because in the previous request we have created the order ID, we
have captured it also access token.
Also we have saved in a variable.
So after set after sending all the requests.
Do we really need order ID, access token?
We don't need it.
So I'm unsetting those two variables.
I'm removing those variables because we don't need to do anything with this because we already sent
all the request.
Now when I send this by default, it will delete it.
Now if I go back and see here still access token is available.
So why it is available.
Because it is a capital letter.
You can see the email uh access token A is a capital letter.
So we need to specify the capital letter here how we have created here.
Let's go back and check once again uh under scripts we have given capital letter.
Right.
So here also we need to specify the capital letter.
Okay.
Now we can send this no order with ID.
So I think it is got deleted.
Now nothing is there?
Okay.
So still email address is there.
Uh, if you want to delete this email, also, you can simply delete this.
You can add another 1 p.m. dot collection variable onset email.
We created this email in the first request.
Do you guys remember at the time of creating the token we need email address.
Random email address.
Under scripts we created here Pre-request script.
Here we created.
So that is also get deleted from here.
Okay done.
So because we already deleted them.
So it is giving invalid breakpoint.
Okay perfectly fine.
Okay so now you understood everyone.
So how we are going to create different type of request based on the API documentation.
So we need to just go through the documentation step by step.
And accordingly we created different type of request.
Okay.
Now so I want to run all this request in one single shot.
So how many requests?
Currently we have.
3456789.
Almost 123.
Along with the create token.
How many requests we have?
123456789.
Requests are there.
Now I want to run all the requests in one shot.
How we can run it.
We can run the collection directly.
Okay.
Now, when I run the collection normally, what happens?
Let me run the collection and show you.
So I'm just clicking on three dots, and I'm simply running collection.
And you can see all the requests will be shown.
And if you want to run all the request, you can select everything.
Suppose if you don't want to run specific request, you can unselect like this.
Okay so all the requests are shown.
So select all deselect reset.
All options are available.
Now select this run manually option for now and here iterations we will use for data driven testing.
Okay.
And delay time.
You can specify.
Suppose I send one request and after sending one request it will take some time to get response.
And then I will go and execute another request.
If you want to put some time between each and every request, you can add some time here one second,
2 seconds or 3 seconds.
Sometimes if the if the response is getting delayed because of that request may be failed sometime.
So in that case you can add some delay time here.
So I'll explain these options in the next example.
So simply I'm running this book's API collection I'm simply run this.
Now you can see it is executing everything one by one.
It is listing out all the stuff.
So I can say create token status books API.
It is still not run actually you just See it isn't or not, it is simply saying zero.
Okay, perfect.
It is done actually.
But why?
It is saying all test to zero because we have not added any validations guys.
Did we add any validations?
Any assertions?
No.
So that's the reason all tests are zero.
Suppose if you added any validations, if they are passed or failed then here it will show you green
or red color.
As of now we don't have any validations so it is executed, but there are no results.
Even if you click on the view results here it is simply say only executed, but there are no tests found
for every request.
There are no tests found, but they are successfully executed.
Okay, suppose I want to execute the in which order they have executed, in which order they have executed.
If I look at here first create token status books of API.
List of books.
Single books.
Submit order.
Get all orders.
Single order.
So in whichever order we be created under the collection in the same order they have executed.
So we don't have any problem.
But in the older versions of postman it was not like that actually.
So the request will be executed based on the alphabetical order.
Okay, so in the newer versions of postman, by default it is taking same order in whichever order we
created in the same order.
But still, if you want to customize the order, suppose I want to execute first token, and after that
I want to execute submit order.
After that I want to execute delete order.
Okay.
So then how we can do that.
So we can specify the order.
Okay.
So for example my requirement is first I want to create my token okay.
And after creation of the token I directly want to execute my submit order because these three requests
don't need any authentication.
Also I just ignoring them.
Okay, first I will create my token and after that directly I will execute submit order.
And after that I will try to execute update order and delete order.
So how we can control this.
For example, if you want to control this you can just go and run the collection.
Here you can select.
Suppose you can unselect whatever you don't want.
So create token I need submit order.
Get all orders.
Get single order.
Update order like this.
So I just removed this by default in whichever request I have selected.
By default they will go as per the order.
Perfect.
This is the one way to execute.
Okay, suppose even though I have this request.
But still I want to execute a specific request based on the order.
First I want to execute my create token.
Then directly I will execute my submit order.
Then I will execute my get single order.
Then I will execute my delete order.
So how we can control this order.
So to control this order, we have a method available.
Postman method is available.
Okay.
So how we can do that.
First what is a method I want to execute.
So first of all we need to decide the order okay.
Accordingly we can specify that.
So let me define the order in which order you want to execute.
So first I want to execute my create token okay.
Create token is my first request.
Next what is the next one.
After that I will directly go to submit order.
So submit order I will execute and after that I will go to get single order directly get single order.
And after that I will directly go to update order.
Fourth one update order I will execute And after that delete order.
So delete order.
So this is how we need to first customize order and whatever request you want.
So what is the first approach.
As I already told you first approach is if I go back to three dots and run collection, you can run
only those collection.
Whichever you want to run according to your requirement.
You can select whatever request you want to run and unselect rest of them, so only selected request
will be executed, so no problem.
But in the older versions of postman it was not possible like that.
So we need to specify the order also.
Okay, just try to remember how we can define the order.
So this concept is there.
So to define this order first which request we have to send create token.
Go to create token okay.
Here after create token what is the next request we have to execute.
What is the next one.
Submit order right now after execution of this post.
request.
After getting the response, go to post response here I enable this set.
Next request.
What is the next request I want to execute?
Here you can specify that.
So what is the method pm dot execution dot set next request.
Here we need to specify the name of the request.
So after sending this request, once you get a response post the response will execute right.
So in the post response what you are mentioning, we are specifying the what is the next request we
are going to execute.
Okay PM dot execution dot set next request.
What is the name of the next request?
Submit order that I can specify here.
Here I'll say submit order name should be exactly same okay.
Submit order now save it.
So now after in the where we need to write this inside the create token because after execution of create
token post response, this script will execute.
So it will go to submit order.
Now go to submit order now.
Okay.
After submit order, what is the next request?
We have to execute single order right now.
Go to scripts go to Post response and here same statement again PM dot execution dot set next request.
So what is the next request I want to execute here.
Single order.
Get the single order I say get the space single space order okay so now after execution of this post
request where it will go it will go get the single order request now.
Save it now.
After submitting an order it will go to single order.
Now go to single order.
Now get single order.
So here.
So in the single order after single order, which one?
We have to execute update order.
Now again go to scripts post response.
Here I enable this PM dot execution dot set next request update order okay now update resolved already
already done.
So now go to update order update order.
So in the update order what is the next request.
We have to execute delete order.
So go to the scripts here under post response.
Enable this PM dot execution dot set.
Next request is what delete order okay.
So after deletion order do we have any other request.
Next request after delete order.
No we don't have any more request.
So then how we can stop it.
Go to delete order and go to scripts here and here.
We need to say null.
Null is nothing, but there is no next request because this is the last request pm dot execution dot
next set next request null.
So whichever request we are sending, we are sending.
At the last we specify null because we don't have the next request.
Okay.
So now save this.
So this is how we can customize the execution order.
Now let me clear this and I'll try to execute and some other request.
Also I have added the Pre-request scripts.
Let me check and delete them.
So go to the scripts.
You can see I just disable this.
I already added but I disabled this for list of books.
Also add it but disable this for single book.
Also I have added but disable this okay for get all orders disable get single order is enabled.
Update order is also enabled.
Delete order is also enabled.
Perfect.
So now let us execute the collection and we will see whether we are able to execute the proper collections
in proper order or not.
So go to here run collection.
So now do we need to uncheck here other collections.
Do we need to uncheck.
No we don't need to uncheck right.
We don't need to uncheck.
So even if you run this I'm just running all the collections.
Simple run basics books API.
Now we can see only five requests are got successfully executed.
So why it is happening?
Because we customized the order we customized.
We explicitly told after creation of token execute submit order.
After that execute get single order after that, execute update order.
After that, finally execute delete order.
We explicitly specify in each and every request.
So that is the reason, even though it is selected all the collections by default, but it is executed
only five collections or five request, whichever is having customized.
So now you understood everyone's how we can customize the order order of request.
But in the earlier versions of postman this is magnetically required.
But in the latest versions of postman, not mandatory.
Why?
Because by default all collections will execute in whichever order we have created.
Also, we have an option to select whichever collections we want to execute, and we have options here
which are collections we don't want to execute.
We can simply specify that okay.
So everybody's understood the concept so far.
Please confirm in the chat box.
So what will happen if you don't set next request as null at last?
Nothing will happen.
It will stop there itself.
Nothing will happen by default.
It will stop because after that we don't have any request, but still explicitly why we have written.
Can anyone guess?
Guys, even if you're not written, even if you comment this still it will stop here.
But again, even it is stopped by default.
Still, I have written the statement why it is needed.
Why it is needed.
Anyone can guess it.
Very good question.
Why?
I have specified this by default.
It will stop because delete order is the last one anyway, right?
So it will stop by default.
But why?
Again, I specified this explicitly.
For example, let's say if you have any other request after delete order.
Suppose in the same collection, suppose.
Let's say after delete order, you have.
Suppose you have one more request here.
Then what will happen if I don't specify this?
The next request?
Whatever is there that will automatically will execute if you are not, if you are not specifying the
what is the next request you want to execute by default, which will execute the next request will go
and execute.
You understood my point everyone.
So if I don't specify this request, then after this request, whatever is request is available.
By default it will go and execute.
But currently we don't have any other request after this, so there is no problem.
But suppose if you have any other request created here, then you have to specify that.
Then it will stop at the delete order itself.
Okay.
Perfect.
So now we have understood books API how we can create different type of request, how we have created
the token and saved it and also submit order order ID we have saved.
And also we use same order ID to get all order, single order, update order, delete order.
And also we have run all the request at one shot collection we have executed.
Everything is perfectly working well now.
Next level I will.
I will execute this submit order with a different sets of data.
For example, let's say when I say submit order normally what is happening here in the body?
We just specify only one book ID one customer name.
So when I send this request, how many orders will be created?
How many orders will be created?
Only one order will be created.
But suppose I want to create multiple orders with the same request.
I don't want to run the same request multiple times.
I will run this request only one time, but I want to create multiple orders with different sets of
data with different sets of data.
So then we need data variables.
We need to apply data driven testing okay.
So now what I will do is I will try to achieve the data driven testing so far that I'm going to take
a few collections here.
First one submit order I will take okay and then single order and delete order.
So few request I will take and then I will do data driven testing.
So I will create multiple orders.
And also I will capture the uh orders.
And then I will delete the orders.
So I will execute the request with multiple sets of data.
So for that what I will do is I already have one books API data driven.
So let me take another copy of it duplicate and I will try to rename this.
This is also D6 underscore books API data driven.
So this is a name new name I have given to my collection okay D6 books API data driven.
Now I have taken only three requests guys submit order and whatever order we submitted we will get that
order by using get single order request and then delete order only three I'm taking.
So this is a delete order okay.
So submit order get single order and then delete order.
So three request.
And if I go back and see the do we need token here for these three requests.
This is a totally different collection.
So do we have any variables in the collection.
We will see.
So we don't have any variables in the collection.
So do we need token for these three request.
Yes we need token also.
Right.
We need token.
So for that what we will do is we will try to create a token manually.
And same token I will add in these three request okay.
So we in the previous collection we already have it create token request right.
So I will run this request once.
So it will create a token and give it us.
So let me run this request once right.
So token is got created.
So now I'm using this token, uh, in the next collection.
Okay, so here, for these three requests, I will use the same token.
So now what I will do is where I can specify the token.
Because I have only three requests in the request level, I will add the token.
Okay.
If you want to add in the collection level also you can add you can create a separate variable manually.
You can do that or collection request level I will do it.
Go to submit order and then go to submit order.
Go to Authorization Bearer token.
So here I will add the token.
Here I will add and then save it okay.
And the body we need to pass right.
So go to body.
And here book ID customer name.
So this is the response.
This is the request body.
But when you want to create a new order we need to pass book ID customer name.
Right.
But this time I will take these two details from the external file.
It can be CSV file or it can be JSON file.
So three two types of files are supported.
So these are the two parameters.
This time I will call them as a data parameters.
So what are the data parameters.
In the last classes I have told you how many types of parameters we can create, how many types of variables,
how many types of variables.
So global uh sorry environment variables, collection variables, request variables and data variables.
Right.
So now I will create data variables later.
So I'm just taking the data here.
So this is the body.
Now when I go to the scripts here I just added a few validations.
So I'm just verifying the status code 201 or not.
And also order id variable I will create because this request will create an order ID.
So I'm saving that order id so that the same order id I will use in get single order.
Here I will use order id also for delete order.
Also I will use the same order ID okay.
These are submit order, same thing.
Whatever we have done in the previous collection books API.
Same thing we are doing okay, but something is different.
What is that?
In the submit order we are taking the data from the external file.
So I have not created book ID customer name variables.
Have you seen anything here under Pre-request script?
I don't have no variables are created but still I am passing book id customer name so I will get this
data from the external files.
Okay, so this is something.
Order get single order.
We already know.
So this is up URL.
I'm just passing order ID authorization again here.
Bearer token is just now we generated same bearer token I'm adding.
And under scripts again I added one validation point.
Also I'm verifying the order ID is same or not, because whatever order ID we created in the previous
request, same order with the same order ID, I'm printing the order details, so order ID is exactly
same or not.
I'm validating from the JSON data id I'm capturing from the response comparing with the order id which
is created as a variable.
So this is validation point order id validation.
This is status code validation.
This time I'm also adding the validations in the submit order.
Also go to the scripts post response I have added a validation status code validation.
I'm also capturing the order id.
Remember this.
Now go to the last one delete order.
So again here we need to pass order ID authorization.
Here token is required hard coding the token and go to steps.
And again one more validation.
So 204 is the status code I'm expecting for deletion request.
After that order ID I'm just deleting the variable because after deleting the order order id is not
needed.
So I'm just unsetting the variable.
So same three requests earlier.
Whatever we done.
Same thing I'm doing.
Submit order get single order.
Delete order.
So now the new thing is in the submit order under the scripts or body this data we should get it from
the external file.
So that is the one thing.
Second thing is we want to run the these three requests multiple times with multiple sets of data.
Repetition is there.
Okay.
So now let me show you the data.
So we need to prepare the data before uh achieving this data driven testing.
So I will show you the data how we have prepared.
So here in automation automation files uh JSON files here API test data.
So here I have a two different files CSV file and JSON file.
Uh let me open the CSV file first.
So here I have some data.
Okay, so here I have taken different book IDs and customer name.
So different customer names.
Now how many records we have in this.
How many records.
12345 records are there.
So we need to run the collection five times.
The entire collection.
Collection in the sense again, the three requests are part of the same collection.
So how many times we have to run this collection?
Five times.
Because five different type of inputs we have.
Okay.
So this is my CSV file.
So let it be there.
Let me close this right.
Okay.
So this is my CSV file.
Currently I have save your changes in the files okay.
So CSV file already kept here.
Now how we can get the data into this collection.
So we already mentioned the parameters name.
So this name is exactly matching with the column id in the CSV file.
Remember this okay.
This book ID customer name names should be exactly match, because whatever column is there in the CSV
file, that column name is treating as a variable name here.
So the column name should be exactly same.
So if I go back and see once again.
So you can see book ID is exactly same.
And then customer name is also exactly same book ID customer name.
Two columns you can have n number of columns no matter.
Okay.
So how we can execute this collection with the data which we prepared in the CSV file.
Simple.
Go to three dots just how you would execute the collection.
Same process.
Go to run collection.
And also remember one thing guys, we have not written any JavaScript to read the data from the CSV
file or JSON file.
Have you written any script here in the submit order in the skips.
Did we written any script here?
Nothing.
There is no script is required.
Additional script is required to capture the data from the CSV file or JSON file.
No need because postman supported everything.
So let me go to collection.
Now I run the collection so all three request I want to execute for all sets of data.
Now select this run manual option.
And here these two fields are most important.
Now configuration is most important.
So currently how many records we have in the CSP file five records are there.
So how many times we have to repeat this collection now five times.
So that number we can specify five times.
Suppose I have only five records in my CSV file.
But I want to take only two records.
I want to take only two records.
Then I can limit the records here.
I want to take only three records.
Then you can say three here.
Okay, I want to take all five records.
Then I can say five here.
So that is called iterations field.
So how much data you have in the CSV file.
So those many number you need to specify exactly here how many times this collection should be executed
that you can configure here.
And delay time.
So when you do data driven testing same request we are trying to execute multiple times repetitively.
Right.
So in those cases definitely there should be delay.
Time is required immediately when you send the request again and again.
Sometimes you may get some response issues delay issues.
So to avoid that safe side you can add some delay one second or two seconds.
You can simply put I say two seconds or one second is enough.
Sometimes if the performance is very slow then you can add 2 seconds or 3 seconds.
So what is this delay?
Delay is a time between each and every request.
So first it will submit order.
After that it will wait for one second.
Then it will send get a single order.
Then again it will wait for one second, then go to delete order.
So this time is seconds between each and every request.
Now here we need to get the file.
So we have a CSV file and JSON file.
Now we need to select the file.
So click on select file and select the file.
Wherever you have CSV file I am selecting.
You can name it any name no problem and say open.
So now I have browse this file.
How many records are there in this file.
Five records here.
Iterations also five.
Now what is the format of the file?
By default it is given here text slash CSV.
Both are same.
So currently what is the format of the file.
CSV so it is automatically given.
If not you can select from here.
And when you click on the preview it will show you the data.
So book ID auto detected customer name is also detected and the iterations also given by default.
First iteration this data will be taken in the second iteration.
This will be taken.
Third iteration.
This will be taken.
Okay.
Suppose if the CSV file is having some issues or the content is not properly aligned.
Here you won't see the preview.
If you are not able to see the preview, that means your CSV file is corrupted.
You need to correct the data in the CSV file.
The alignment format is not correct.
If everything is perfectly correct, then only you will see the preview data.
Okay, so we provided iterations delay time.
We selected the file file format and no need to select any option.
Simply run the A6 books API.
So this is the name of the API.
Simply run it and see what is the magic.
So this data will be taken only in the first request, but all request will be executed five times because
as soon as you created one order immediately I want to get the order immediately.
I want to delete the order also.
Okay, so this is the data driven testing in the data driven testing how many records we are using?
Five records we are using, how many requests we are repeating.
How many requests we are repeating.
Three requests we are repeating.
That means submit order will execute five times.
Get single order also execute five times.
Delete order also will be executed five times.
Okay, now run the collection.
Observe.
See?
It is executing and we added validations.
Also validations.
So it is now it is giving green color and number of tests passed or failed.
Also it is given here.
Now we can clearly see that we have run three request and submit order.
How many times it is executed?
Five times executed.
And if you go back and see the submit order, I go back and see the submit order.
Go to the scripts and post response.
How many validations we have added here, validations in the submit order.
How many validations?
We have added only one validation status code we have added.
So in the submit order five times it is executed means what five assertions are executed.
In every iteration, one test is got executed.
So how many are showing here?
Five is showing five tests are executed okay in five iterations is given green color.
So all five iterations are passed.
Now come to the get request.
In the Get request how many tests?
We have added a single order.
If I go back to single order, go to the scripts.
How many tests we have added two tests.
We have added two tests in the single order.
So if I go to single order five into two total, how many tests are executed?
Ten are executed in five iterations.
Now in the delete order.
How many tests we have added, only one test we have added.
So five iterations five times each test.
So five are got executed and there are no failures.
So it is simply giving zero.
All five iterations everything is successfully executed.
Now if I just expand this and it will show you the result of the test, again, it will show results.
Two validations.
We have added results and delete.
Also only one validation is added.
Okay so this is the detailed uh execution status.
Now if I just click on view results here there is a link called View Results.
Click on it.
It will show you more detailed.
So here this is a URL we have sent past get request passes to past and delete request is passed.
Post request is passed.
So total how many are there three into 515 request.
You can see here 15 including all the test.
Totally 20 tests are got executed and five iterations.
First iteration is the first iteration.
Second iteration, third fourth five iterations.
Okay.
So this is how we can achieve the data driven test.
So later if you want to export these results you can export here click on export results even JSON format.
You can export the results later.
We will discuss about reporting and exporting and everything okay.
So if you want to run this again one more time there is option is there again.
Run again.
So again you can use same every time.
You no need to go here and select Run collection.
So in the collection window run collection window itself you can see this run again button.
So any number of times you can execute by clicking on run again okay.
Now go to console here.
And I'm clearing the console.
And I will just rerun the collection one more time and see in the console window also we can clearly
see the results.
Click on this run again.
Now just observe it is again running the request.
Now you can see here Total three into 515 requests are got executed so you can see post get deleted
again, post get, delete again, post get delete, post get delete, post, get, delete five times.
And again.
If you expand this you will see all the request response request body, what we have sent and what is
the response body?
What is the response we got?
Everything it will show you in the console window.
Okay, so this is how we can achieve the data driven testing using data variables.
We can repeat the collection multiple times.
Now we will see by using JSON format.
So I already have a file with the JSON.
So let me open this same data but is in JSON format.
It is JSON format.
This is one record.
This is next record, third record, fourth record and next record.
So if you have a CSV file you can convert it into JSON.
Similarly, if you have a JSON file, you can convert it into CSV also.
So there are so many online tools are available.
So just you can type convert JSON to CSV and you will find so many tools, you can say JSON to CSV converter
and you can just provide JSON file.
It will convert into CSV.
Similarly you have different tools are available CSV to JSON.
You can easily convert.
You can you can explore this.
So with the same CSV I converted to JSON file.
Now let us see how we can do the JSON file request.
Let me close this now.
Same collection.
You don't need to change anything because same data.
We have same book ID.
Customer name comes from the JSON file.
So what you need to do again click on three dots run collection.
And we selected all the collections and iterations five iterations let makes three iterations or two.
Whatever number you want.
Maximum.
How many are there?
Five.
A given delay time is one.
Now select the file JSON JSON file I've selected open.
Now just observe.
So you can see by default it is taking this type.
This is called Mime type.
For JSON we have application slash.
JSON is a Mime type.
So when I click on the preview this is the save side option.
No need to click preview every time okay.
But if your JSON file is properly created it doesn't have any issues or not.
If you want to simply check, click on the preview so you can see the data here.
And if the JSON is having some issues, you won't see the preview.
Okay, simple.
Run it again.
So this time the data is taken from where CSV file.
Sorry JSON file.
Again everything is got successfully executed.
So totally 20 tests are there in all iterations and successfully executed.
And if you go and view summary.
So this is the view summary.
You can see submit order five times executed five tests are passed.
Single order ten times are five times executed ten tests are passed five times executed five tests are
passed.
So this is how we can simply take the data from either CSV or JSON.
So everybody's understood how we can do data driven testing.
So just how we will receive the data from the normal variables.
Same way we will receive the data from the CSV file.
But at the runtime we are receiving, we are not writing any code to get the data from the CSV file.
So that file we are attaching at the runtime before running the collection.
So the dynamically data is taken from CSV or JSON file.
Now our collection is running multiple times.
So this is how we can achieve the data driven testing.
So I'll share this.
Another document.
So first we have submitted the order with this request body.
And after that we have added one validation point and captured the order ID.
This is a script pre post response validation.
And after that get single order.
We have taken order ID and validations and remove the order.
And finally these are three requests we have in the collection.
When you run this we selected three collections.
Selected run manually specify the iteration delete time, select the file and make sure data file type
is correctly given or not, and simply run the collection.
So this is the process.
I will share these two documents today.
Books API okay, then do practice it.
All right.
So we'll stop here for today's session and do practice 1 or 2 rounds of practice.
And rest of the things we will discuss in the next class.
All right.
Yeah.