So in our previous class we have seen how to handle different type of dropdowns like we have seen select
type of dropdown, then bootstrap drop down, hidden drop down and also have uploaded uh on assignment
auto suggestion drop down.
Uh, I think I have seen that how to handle the Google search window.
That is a major, uh, basically the dynamic drop down.
Uh, let me go through that, uh, script.
What we have done.
So this is a script I have written for auto suggest drop down.
First of all, let me show you.
Uh, what is auto suggest drop down and which is also a dynamic drop down because the data we you will
not get every time same.
So let's go to Google page and this is your Google search box.
And here you can search for something.
Right.
And here you can see as soon as you type some search string, you can see some auto suggestions here.
And these values are dynamic because you will not get the same options every time.
And also you will not get the options in the same order.
The order can be changed and the date also or the items will be changed.
Okay.
And the number of items can be also changed.
So this data is not a constant data.
So this is keeps changing based upon the search string.
So in this case uh we can capture this.
We can do the same thing.
Like once you provided your search string we can find how many options are displayed here.
Also, uh, we can select one of the option and we can click on that option.
For example I type selenium here.
And in this we can select one of this option.
And like this and then it will go to the actual page.
So this is a dynamic dropdown.
So to handle this what we can do is.
First we have to launch our page and maximize it.
And this is the element search box element.
If I inspect this element.
Right click inspect.
And, uh.
So this is a text area box.
It is just like an input box text area.
And there is a name attribute is here.
Name attribute is q.
So I have taken this attribute to find that element.
So by dot name q dot sendkeys of selenium I provided some text here inside the text box, and once you
provided some text here.
So the data comes from SQL server.
So which will take few seconds of time to fetch all this data.
So let's wait for five seconds there.
And after that you can operate this data.
So in this what I have done is first I have captured all the options.
And here XPath is most important.
So we need to write one dynamic XPath.
So if I inspect one option for now.
And go to Selector hub.
Okay.
So if you look at this these are all options are displayed dynamically.
Right.
So if I go back and see the HTML.
Under the ul tag ul is nothing but a user list inside this.
There is multiple li tags are there.
Each and every Li tag is representing one item.
One search item.
You can see this.
L.A. is nothing but a list item, so each and every L.A. tag is representing one item.
And if you expand one of the Li inside this, there is again one more div tag.
Inside this there are multiple div tags.
And where is exactly our item.
So if I just expand this.
Div tags.
There are many div tags are there, so we need to find out exactly where is our element.
Suppose I'm trying to inspect one element, let's say web drive.
So inside the span you can find this element selenium webdriver.
Inside the span when this value comes dynamically okay.
And where is this span inside the div.
This is again inside the du du du div.
And finally all the divs are part of li tag okay.
So let us write an XPath for this and that XPath should match with all the elements.
So first of all where we can start.
Let us start from the parent element.
So that is ul element okay.
So from the UI element we will start.
And what are the elements are there?
Uh, what are the attribute name, class and role is there?
So I'll take a role attribute.
So by taking help of this role attribute, let us write an XPath slash slash ul.
At the rate.
Role equal to list.
Box.
Okay.
And inside this, uh, roll.
There are many options.
They can see us at the rate role equal to this box and two elements are matching.
I when I take a role, two elements are matching.
And inside this ul uh role equal to list box.
And if you want, you can also take the class.
I'm also taking the class list box.
And.
At the rate class equal to, we can specify the class attribute.
Still two elements.
So in that case class is not needed.
Okay.
So let us have this.
So two elements are currently matching in this.
So you can say slash slash li.
Now we can see ten elements are matching.
So all ten search items are matching.
But inside the Li the actual item is there.
Inside the actual text is there inside the multiple div tags.
And once you navigated all the div tags, you can find that option in the span tag.
Okay, so now how we have written this.
Uh, inside the span tag.
So let me.
Find this option.
One of this option.
Yes.
If I look at here, this is a span tag.
And inside the span tag you can find all these things.
Right.
So what I can do is I can say like slash slash span.
Now you can see that all the texts are matching because inside the span all the options are available.
So I'll take this X path.
So this is also the right export.
Yeah.
Be present.
Uh, that is also part of the span, so no problem.
Because if you take B only will get a partial thing.
And if you, if I look at the search string some part is uh normal and another, some part is a bold
letters.
Right.
So that's the reason they put inside the B.
Okay, so now if we inspect one of the element again say this is entirely span tag.
Everything is included in the span tag.
Okay.
And there are multiple tags you may have in between, but directly you can jump to the span tag because
all these search options are available in the span tag.
And all these are again part of the list.
And all the lists are part of the user list UL tag.
So accordingly we can write the XPath.
So first we will go to ul tag, then list item.
Okay.
And if you want to specify uh, this attribute for list item, also you can specify presentation role
equal to presentation.
So for the list item also you have an expert and the rate role equal to presentation.
Okay and then directly jump to the span element 50 elements are matching.
When I say 50 elements are matching I think this role is having many places.
So let me remove this.
I think there are other list items are having same, uh, thing.
So again, you can see.
50 elements are matching, so this is not the right one.
We need to get exactly these options.
Okay.
Let's see.
Another expert will work on it.
So let me check this one.
And this expert will keeps changing so I will put this expert.
Okay.
Exactly ten elements are matching.
So let me show you the same XPath I have written.
So slash slash UL role equal to list box.
Because this is the UL we have started from UL.
Okay, let me find this.
Yeah.
This is the UL role equal to list box.
And inside this I'm directly go to Lee tag.
And inside this little bag instead of span tag, I'm taking the div tag actually.
So this is the li.
Inside the li there are multiple divs are there, and we need to find exactly in which div tag that
item is present.
Okay, actual tag is span tag, but maybe the other options are not there in the span tag, so we will
take the parent one.
The span is also part of the div tag, so we'll take the div tag okay.
So if I look at this again there are multiple div tags.
Are there.
These are parent div tag.
And there are again three div tags are there.
So let's go to the first div tag.
Expand this.
Okay.
And, uh, find out where exactly that element is present.
Okay.
RL is better to find one element.
Okay.
This is a span.
Okay.
So the role is option okay I have taken this one.
This is the element I have taken pro equal to option.
And each and every thing is an option here.
So if I filter by using role equal to option exactly we can filter ten options.
Okay.
And this is the option I have taken.
So where it is it is a second div tag okay.
So la tag la contains a one div tag.
And inside this div second div tag.
So actually our element is present inside the second div tag.
So second div tag and inside this first div tag.
And here.
Role equal to option.
This is the one I have taken.
Role equal to option and inside the role equal to option.
Lady role equal to option.
So I have taken this x path.
So you can write this many ways.
This is one of the way I have written which is pointing exactly ten elements.
And let me remove this for now.
So two elements are showing show or two elements.
And if you say li only li ten elements.
But it is also uh, when I say just li, it is also count.
Uh, it is also pointing, uh, these icons actually.
Icons.
Along with this.
This everything is one web element.
It is taken.
But I just want to eliminate this icons such items so I can just put some other.
Option.
Develop.
All equal to option.
Role equal to option.
So let us see span.
Also this is one x path.
We will try another x path.
Let us take this one.
Yeah, in many, many ways.
You can write XPath.
If I take 50, elements are matching.
I don't know where these 50 elements are coming from.
Okay.
Ten elements are matching.
And inside this Lee.
This is a lie.
Dave.
We can skip all the div tags and we can directly jump to the span inside the li.
We can directly jump to the span.
Slash slash spam.
Okay.
When I take a span element again it is giving 15 elements 50 elements.
Okay, so even if I dig this one also it is giving 50 elements.
If I take roll presentation it is again giving 50 elements.
So again I'm going to the above one.
So this one here I've taken roll equal to option.
When I take roll equal to option div of roll equal to option, then it is giving.
So instead of taking span tag.
I can take this one.
So do.
At the rate.
Overall equal to.
Option.
Okay.
So if I take other, uh, other attributes is giving 50 elements, even if you take span or if you take
this div rule presentation, it is giving 50.
It is not accurate value.
So again I'll go to the above parent this one.
So here I'm taking role equal to option.
So then it is giving ten elements.
So this is the XPath which is correct.
This is not the right one okay.
So this XPath I can use to get all the options into the variable.
I've created one variable called list.
Okay.
And then I can find the size of options.
How many are there?
And, uh, then I can find I can read each and every option.
Now I have written normal for loop.
You can also write enhanced for loop.
Suppose I want to select one of the option.
From that you can just get each and every option I just printed here.
But normally if you want to select one of the option you can write a conditional statement like if list
of get of I dot get text equal to this one and uh the same option.
Click it and after clicking it we no need to go with the further option.
As soon as you found required option, just click it and after clicking in that option you no need to
go further options.
So immediately just say break.
Again.
Break it.
So based on the condition, we can select the value from the dropdown.
So here I have passed something called selenium.
Let's go and execute.
Okay, now you can see the search string.
Provided and then list of options.
Now I have clicked on selenium.
So it is a search string and I got all the links in the web page.
So this is the way we can simply handle auto suggest or drop down.
This is auto suggested.
Drop down means as soon as you put some string, it will show you all the required options and same
kind of scenario we already seen earlier, uh, in test automation form.
Uh, this is Wikipedia tabs, right?
The same here also, as soon as you type something.
But here auto sessions will not come immediately.
But after clicking on the search you will get this options.
But in the Google form.
As soon as you type something, even without clicking on search box, as soon as you type something,
auto suggestions will come here.
Okay so this is a simple example.
You can try this.
So everybody is clear how to handle this autosuggest box.
This is the one type of autosuggest, but you can see different types of autosuggest.
So only everything is depends upon the XPath.
Okay.
Some more, uh, drop downs are there?
Uh, they're also auto suggest.
Uh, I will give some links.
Uh, video links.
You can go through them.
You can understand how to handle other type of auto suggest boxes.
Okay.
Because this will be different from one type to another type.
So there are different type of auto suggestion boxes are there.
So because developers will design them in the different ways, and the same approach may not be suitable
for all kinds of auto suggest drop downs, sometimes you need to change uh, we need to apply some different
type of logics okay.
So later I will share some of the videos related to the drop downs.
And you can just go through and you can understand different type of drop downs.
But these are the uh, normal drop downs most of the times we can see in our applications.
Right.
So that's it.
And based on this you can just try other one.
And what is this Bjs.com.
Yeah.
This is also auto suggest drop down same just like a Google.
This is also auto suggest drop down.
You guys can try this.
Okay.
This is the search box as soon as you type something.
Uh.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now we can see you're getting some options here.
And also you get in some products.
This is also auto suggest.
So you guys can try this.
I put this as part of assignment.
You guys can try this.
Okay.
Now, uh, you try this.
If you're not able to do, then I can explain that later.
Okay?

Or I will do some coding and I'll upload it.
But you can try this.
That's not a big thing.
Actually.
It's not.
It's a easy one.
You can try.
All right.
Next one.
Uh, today's session, uh, we'll start with something called how to handle Tables.
Web tables.
Okay in web tables.
Also, there are different type of web tables we can see on our application and on the table.
Most of the times we validate the data.
The table contains a data.
So we will capture the data and do some kind of validations okay.
Basically there are three kinds of tables we can see on our applications.
Uh static web table, dynamic tab web table and then pagination web tables.
So static web table means what there are fixed number of rows fixed number of columns.
Even data is also static.
That will not change anytime.
That's called static web table.
And it is very easy to handle.
And dynamic web table means what the dynamic table.
The data keeps changing, the data keeps changing.
Even number of rows.
Also keep adding more number of rows.
Keep adding and sometimes rows will be reduced.
The data is not fixed.
The data is dynamically changing.
That's called dynamic web table.
And, uh, columns will be fixed.
Okay.
In the dynamic web table, columns will be fixed, but the rows number of rows can be increased or reduced.
The data also can be changed.
And table with pagination means.
Suppose if the table contains 100 records, right 100 rows, but in the first table it will show only
few records.
In the second page it will show few more records like that.
This is called pagination table.
So for example.
Some sample table I'm showing, but we will see this actual in real time applications.
Well, look at this.
This is a static table.
Fixed the number of rows.
Fixed number of columns.
The data also won't change the fixed type of data.
This is one type of web table.
Static table.
Pagination means what this is the pagination.
So currently five records are displayed.
If I go to the next page then it will show you some more records.
Again if you go to the next page some more records, next page, some more records.
This is called pagination table.
Okay.
This is called pagination table.
And this pagination table design can be different ways or designs.
Are there the same design you cannot find.
Okay let me show you.
Uh, but it is a little bit tough to handle the dynamic, uh, pagination tables.
But we will also see how we can handle pagination tables later.
So, for example, uh.
I'll show you a sample pagination table.
So adding in open cart.
Yes, at the table with multiple pages is called pagination table.
So I'm just logging into this site.
This is.
I'm just showing the pagination table how it will be in the real time applications.
Okay, so if you go back to the customers.
Okay.
This is another type of pagination table.
You can see there are some customers.
List is displayed in customer name, email address, group status and added everything.
And if you go to the next one next page you can see some more details and you can navigate this each
and every page.
There are almost 1904 pages are there in this table, and in the first, each and every page it is displaying
only ten records.
Okay.
So this is also a pagination table.
But this is a little bit complex to handle.
But we will see that also.
But before directly going to this we will see basic level tables.
We will try to understand actually what how to handle the table.
What are the tags we can find in HTML, and how to write a dynamic XPath, and how we can pass parameters
to the XPath.
We have to learn few more concepts before jumping into this table.
Okay, so we'll see that also.
So static web table means what the data is static.
That will not change.
So this is the example.
So you can see book name other subject price and everything.
This is called static table.
No change every time.
Same data same number of rows same number of columns.
Everything is same.
Dynamic web table means what?
The data keeps changing and also number of rows keeps adding.
That's called dynamic table.
Okay.
For example let's go to orange.
Hmm.
Application.
And here you can see dynamic table.
Okay.
So once you login into this.
Okay.
So you can just go to.
I mean, see, this is our dynamic table.
Actually this is also table, but this is a more dynamic.
So here you can see user names, user roles, employee name status actions.
And here the columns are fixed but the data keeps adding or keeps removing deleting.
So suppose if you want to remove some record here I can just remove it.
So now number of rows are reduced.
One record is got removed.
So this is a dynamic table.
The data is not fixed every time.
Okay.
And pagination table means this is a pagination table.
You can keep changing the pages and you can read the data.
So these are the three different type of tables.
Now in the today's session we will try to handle the static table.
And in the next sessions we will see.
So pagination in essence this is also dynamic table because the data is also keeps changing here.
This is pagination plus dynamic web table okay.
Both are satisfied here dynamic as well as pagination table.
Okay.
So if in the dynamic web table, if I just add pages, that becomes a dynamic and pagination table.
So that we will see later tomorrow.
And today we will focus mainly on the static table because we want to learn some basics from the web
table.
And then only we can handle other type of tables.
So let's start with the static table first.
I'll show you all the tables first.
We'll start with the static table.
So you can see this is a simple basic very basic table.
And we'll try to understand what are the different type of operations we can do on this table okay.
So if you inspect this table.
First, let us try to understand about the tags.
What are the tags we can find in HTML?
So if I look at here the table is a tag.
You can see the table tag which is pointing the entire table.
And there is an attribute called name equal to book table.
And if you expand this table.
And you can see the T body tag table contains a t body.
T body means table body.
It is representing the entire body of the table and inside the T body you can find multiple TR tags.
Every TR is representing one table row.
How many rows are in this?
Those many number of TRS you can find and inside the T body.
So how many number of rows are there in the table.
There are equivalent to TR you can find inside the T body.
So you can see every TR is representing a table row.
Now if I expand the first tr first tr you can see the t h tags.
So t h is representing table header table header.
So here book name other subject price.
So these are four items are there.
These four are the table headers.
So t h is representing table header.
In each t h there is a header name is present.
This is a first tr.
So first row is what header.
First row is considered as a header.
Now, if you go to the second tier now from the second tier, actual data is started.
So this data is represented with the TDI tag.
TDI is representing table data.
So in the second tier you can see TDI tags.
Each TDI is having table data.
Same thing is continued for every tier.
So third tier again multiple TDs are there.
Fourth tier again multiple TDs.
So these deeds are representing the table data in the particular row.
So this is the structure of the web table.
So the table tag contains a T body T body contains a TRS.
TR is nothing but a table row.
And the first tr contains a table header from the second tier it is started table data TDI tags.
And this is very very important.
So this is the hierarchy of the table.
Okay.
But sometimes, uh, some web tables, you may not find, uh, tr tag for the heading.
Okay.
They can put directly t h tag.
Okay so this keeps changing again table to table.
But these are the tags we can find in every table.
But the order can be different.
So hierarchy.
Same table T body.
Inside the tiers.
Each tier contains a table header.
Okay.
Now let us try to do some operations on this table.
So let's go to eclipse and create a new package for today.
This is a static.
Table.
Okay, so first of all, uh.
I launched my page and everything.
So.
And for this WebDriver.
And this is implicit weight.
And this is a page.
And this is a maximizing the web page.
Okay.
Now the first operation I'm going to do in this page.
So I want to find.
I want to find the total number of rows in a table.
So I want to find total number of rows in a table.
In this particular table I want to find total number of rows.
There are two different approaches out there.
So if you want to find total number of rows, one approach is simply we can find number of teachers
because every teacher is representing every teacher.
Tag is representing row right.
So if you count the number of teachers in a table that is exactly equivalent to number of rows.
So for example I'm writing one XPath here.
First we go to the table.
And there is a name for the table, right?
What's the name attribute at the rate name equal to.
Uh, book table.
Book table.
So now this is matching with the entire table.
One single table.
And inside this slash slash I'm directly go to T.
Now we can see seven elements.
So this XPath is returning all the rows from a table.
This XPath is returning all the rows from a table that is exactly equal to number of rows.
So by using this XPath we can capture.
The first requirement is.
Find total number of rows in a.
Table.
So now we can say driver dot find elements.
By dot XPath.
Okay, now I can put XPath because this one.
Is returning.
Seven elements.
Seven elements in the sense seven rows are exactly matching.
So when I say slash slash tr, I can just keep a T body.
I asked if I can skip.
If you want, you can put the body.
Also, I can say t body same value will get, but between whatever elements are there I can keep them
right in the relative x path.
So I can say slash slash tr.
So this XPath will return all the teachers that I'm going to store in a variable.
Or what I can do is you can simply use dot size method directly, because this will return multiple
web elements.
Every row is considered as a web element.
Every row is considered as a web element.
So once you get this.
Atop of it.
I'm using size method.
Because this will return the list collection, right?
A list of all the trees on top of it.
I'm using size method, so this will count the number of trees.
That means number of rows that I can store in a variable integer.
Ross.
Okay, now I can just print.
So.
Number of rows.
This is what rose.
So this is the one approach you can find.
You can write an XPath which is pointing all the rows or which is capturing all the rows in a table,
and then you can count it.
Yes.
Okay.
So this is one approach.
So we have we got seven rows.
Columns are represented by th.
Yes.
So some tables you will have a separate column is separate column is included in the separate tag that
is called t h.
Yeah t h is also specified.
But in this table I have a t h which is representing the columns as of now.
So these are columns which are representing table header t h tag.
And these t h is a part of the tr tag.
First row contains a header part.
Yes you are right.
Okay, now we find out the number of rows in a table.
So how we have done?
We have find out all the rows and then on top of it we apply size method that is return number of rows.
This is one approach.
There is another approach.
Suppose instead of writing XPath I can use a tag name.
I can say.
Driver dot.
Find the elements.
By dot tag name.
So what is the tag name of all the rows?
TR right.
So that I can specify here.
And this will also return.
All the rows.
It will also return all the rows and then I can find a size.
So this is also correct.
Inter rows.
Okay, but when I execute this.
Earlier.
We got a seven, right?
So now we'll see.
How many will get.
So now this time we got a 14.
What is a problem in this is this is actually counting the rows from all the tables which are present
in your web page.
Okay.
So this particular tag name of TR because in the same page there are multiple tables are there.
This is one table.
This is another table is also there.
So this table is also having TR right.
So basically what this tag name of TR will do.
This is counted TR our table rows from all the tables which are present in the web page.
That's the reason we are not getting the right one.
So.
But this is the right way.
Okay.
This is also correct.
But when we have to use this one, when we have to use this one, if we have only one single table in
our web page, if we have a one single table in your web page, then you can use this approach tag name
of TR.
Single single table in the web page.
Okay, then it will work properly.
You can get the all the tags from the table by using tag name.
But if you have a multiple tables in your web page, if you have a multiple tables in a web page, then
better to write a exact XPath to capture the trees from the particular table, because we are writing
the locator for the particular table here, right?
So we are capturing the trees from the particular table okay.
So if we have a multiple tables.
In a web page, then it is preferred.
Okay.
This is preferred if you have multiple tables.
If you have a one single table in your web page, then you can go with this approach.
Both are correct, but the second approach is not recommended if you have a multiple tables.
Okay.
Just remember that point.
So now currently I have a multiple tables.
I use first.
So this will give you seven rows present in a table.
How does it returns the title of the book table?
Because we specified in XPath, right?
We specify an XPath.
In XPath, we specify the HTML tag so it will return all the tags from the table.
And in another way we can also specify the tag name.
Whenever I say tag name of tr.
This will return the tr of tr tags all the tr from the table, so we use find elements anyway.
It's okay.
So in the second option we are not specified a specific table.
So it is returning to from all the tables.
That is a problem in the second.
But if we have a single table there is no problem.
It will also return the right value.
Okay, now similar way, we can also find the number of columns in a table.
Find.
Total number of.
Columns in a table.
So how to find a total number of columns in a table?
Again, we need to count the number of columns and where exactly the columns are present in the first
tr tag, right?
The T body in the first tr actual columns are present.
So first we need to go to the first tr tag.
And we need to find out how many deaths are there because the TR is representing header or column.
So if you count how many deaths are there that is exactly equal to number of columns.
Right.
So we will write an XPath for this.
Now go to the book table.
In the book table.
I'll go to first TR slash slash.
TR seven elements are magic, but in which TR we have to go first.
TR so we need to say index number one.
When I say tr of one now it is pointing header.
Exactly.
You can see this.
When I say TR of one first row it is pointing.
When I say tr of two.
Second row pointing when I say tr of three.
Next row is pointing okay, so to count the header part how many columns are there.
We need to go to the first row.
So I say one.
Inside this I have a t h tag so I can say t h.
Now four elements are there.
So exactly equal to four columns are there.
So can we try to reduce this XPath.
Can we reduce this XPath by removing this uh tr of one.
Because the entire table.
The T-h tag is present only in this place, and other tears don't have a pH tag.
Right.
Can we remove the sticker of one?
Yes, we can remove this.
Now.
Still it is giving four elements.
It is directly jump to the th.
So now we can use this XPath to capture the number of columns or headers.
Driver dot find elements.
By dot XPath.
Okay.
Dot size.
So this will exactly return.
Number of columns.
So that I can print here number of columns.
It's.
That.
So let's execute.
Okay.
So number of columns are four.
Can we use tag name here?
Tag name.
Driver dot find elements.
By dot tag name.
Of what to write all the tags I can capture dart size.
Store in another variable.
Now you can see.
So previously it is written for.
Now we'll see what this will return.
So.
See8 is returning because it is also counting from other tables.
So same approach again.
So the first one XPath is preferable if you have a multiple tables.
Multiple table.
Now, if you have a single table, then this is a preferable.
Single table.
Okay, currently this is not applicable, but there are two different ways we can capture it by using
XPath or by using tag name.
So mostly preferable is XPath.
Uh, if you have a single table in a webpage then you can use a tag name.
Okay.
Nothing wrong in that.
So this is how we can find number of rows and number of columns in a table.
Now the next operation.
So everything is depends on the tags only.
So we will count the number of tags tr tags that is equal to number of rows.
When you count number of th tags that is exactly equal to number of columns.
Now the next requirement is.
Suppose I want to read data from specific row and column.
Read data from.
Specific.
A row and a.
Column.
I want to read data from specific row and column.
XPath is most important, right?
So when you're working with the tables.
Okay.
Now I want to capture some data from this table.
Let's say I want to capture this one master in selenium.
So that is the data I want to capture.
So how we can capture this if you inspect that element.
See I'm expecting this element.
It is giving one XPath.
Okay.
Will this XPath works every time.
So this XPath.
Will capture master in selenium.
And whichever row or whichever column it is doesn't matter.
So wherever it is in this table, this XPath will able to capture this one.
But now my requirement is I want to capture this from the specific row under column.
Specific row and column.
So for example in which row this value is present here.
12345 fifth row and in which column it is present first column.
So my requirement is I want to capture the data.
From fifth row and first column.
Okay.
Let's say an example.
Fifth row and first column.
Fifth row and first column.
Whatever data it has doesn't matter.
I want to capture this.
Fifth row and the first column.
Then how we can write an XPath for this element.
So let's try to write it.
So I will go to the table first.
Table tag.
Table.
At the rate.
Name equal to.
Book table.
Think these uppercase book table.
So now I went to table.
And in the table which row that element is present fifth row.
So I can say slash slash doctor and say slash slash doctor.
It is pointing all seven rows.
Seven rows.
Now which row we want to go.
Fifth row.
So we pass the index five fifth row.
Now exactly it is pointing.
This XPath is pointing fifth row.
So inside the fifth row there are multiple TD tags are there.
So which column data we want.
Which TD you want first reading.
So slash slash TD of one TD of one.
So this is exactly pointing to the element.
So whatever value is there inside in here that will be captured.
So tomorrow this value is got changed.
Still this XPath will able to capture the value which is present in the fifth row and the first column.
So this XPath I can use to capture the data.
So driver dot find element.
We are capturing one single data.
This is not t h t h is representing header.
Didi because from the second row all these are present in the table data.
You can see TD.
Are there TD is representing table data.
The hatch is only for first row.
Okay, if you want to capture the headers, you can use first tr and t h, but the rest of the rows
are having TD table data.
Okay, so it should be TD of one.
So now I'm trying to use this XPath driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Okay.
And this will return the.
Element, but from that web element we have to extract the.
Text.
So how can extract the text from the web element?
So this will return the web element.
So how to extract the text.
Yeah continued dot get text okay.
So this will get the.
Element, fifth row and first column.
From that we are extracting the text value.
That is the actual value that I'm going to store in a string.
I'll name it as a, uh, book name.
That I can print.
So I can just print book name.
Like this.
Okay, so we can capture the data from specific row and specific column.
Yeah.
Now you can say mastering selenium.
So we can capture the data from specific row and a specific column.
Just we need to write an XPath and top of it we use get text method.
So get text is a method which will capture the text from the web element.
Okay.
So if you want to capture a specific row and column, just you need to change the row and the column.
Suppose I want to capture something called uh.
This one.
JavaScript.
Yes.
Because this expert this is returning the output.
Right.
getText method will return the text value or string value.
That's the reason I'm storing into the variable.
And then I'm printing it here.
So from the web element, I'm capturing the text value that I'm storing in a variable that I'm printing
here.
Basic question.
Okay.
Now we can see this.
Suppose I want to capture the JavaScript.
Which is there in the last row.
Last row and the third column.
So what is the row number here?
How to write an XPath.
Same tr TD but we can just change the numbers.
So TR of seven seventh row and the third column.
C JavaScript is pointing.
So just by changing the row number and TD number, row number and column number, TR is representing
the row.
TD is representing the column.
So just by changing the row number and column number we can point any of the data in this particular
table.
Okay so this x.
But this is the way we can write an XPath.
So whichever data you want to capture from this table you can just change only row number and the column
number.
That's it.
Okay, now suppose I want to read all the data from the table means all the rows and as all the columns,
everything.
So then we need to go for looping statement.
Okay.
So by your looping statement we can read both requirement.
Read all the data.
All.
Read the data from.
All the rows and columns.
Read the data from all the rows and columns.
It is very simple.
So this particular statement is reading the data from specific row and specific column.
Right.
Now we need to put this inside the looping statement.
And every iteration we have to pass row number and a column number.
Now we need to parameterize the value into the XPath.
So here we have hardcoded the row number and column number.
But this time we have to pass this value dynamically.
In every iteration we have to pass a new row number a new column number.
So it is just like a matrix form.
So if I look at the table, it seems matrix form right rows and columns seems a two dimensional array
even in the two dimensional array.
Also we have a kind of we have a same kind of a structure, right?
So if you want to read all the rows and columns, we have to go with the nested for loop.
Because to increment the number of rows, we have to write one for loop.
To increment the columns, we have to write another for loop.
So two different for loops are required.
Now let me write a for loop.
So outer for loop is representing the.
Outer for loop is for what?
Repeating the rows so inner for loop is what?
Repeating the columns in every row.
So now observe how I am writing the condition.
In outer for loop.
Integer are equal to, so we already counted number of rows.
Right here it is.
So that I'm going to start.
So row number one.
So row number one is what header part.
Row number one is a header part.
So we include we ignore it.
We will start from the second row because actual data started from the second row.
So what I will do is I will start from the second row.
Because first row I have ignored because it is having header part now.
How many times you have to repeat depends upon the number of rows are less than or equal to rows.
Because we already counted number of rows here, so are less than or equal to rows.
Every time we have to increase the our value by one r plus plus.
So this is how we need to write outer for loop.
Okay, because Rose, we already counted.
Size is also we already used here.
So finally we get the number of rows so that I can directly use.
Now.
The second for loop is for what?
Incrementing the number of columns.
So we can start columns from the one itself 1234 columns are there.
So into columns.
C equal to one.
C less than or equal to number of columns.
We already counted here.
Number of columns that I'm using.
And C plus plus.
Every time I'll increase the column number by one.
Now.
Come here.
So we have already written one XPath to get exact value right that I'm going to copy.
So what I will do is.
To capture the value from specific row and column.
First we need to go to the table.
Here, whichever row number and column number we passed, that particular value will be captured by
the get text.
So instead of passing five and one here R is representing the row C is representing the column.
Now I will pass this r and C here.
Okay.
So here I'm passing the R value dynamically.
Here I'm passing column value dynamically.
So then what will happen in every iteration.
These values keeps changing.
So accordingly we will get all the data from the table.
Okay now.
But here.
The problem is we cannot directly pass the variables inside the XPath.
Okay.
So R is one variable.
C is another variable.
We can directly pass the numbers integers like this.
But we cannot directly pass the variables.
But how we can solve this problem?
So still, if you want to pass the data through the variables, we have to follow a small syntax.
What you need to follow is whatever are you specified?
Okay.
And before and after.
First of all.
Yeah.
Before and after.
Keep two plus and include everything in the double quotes like this.
This is a syntax.
Okay.
Keep this are between plus and plus and put everything in the double quotation.
This is the XPath syntax I have not invented this okay.
This is XPath syntax.
If you want to pass parameters into the XPath dynamically you can pass like this.
The variable you can keep between plus and plus and keep everything in the double quotes.
Same thing is applicable for C.
Also, you can put C in the double quotes and then add plus before and after C.
So this is the way we can pass.
Dynamic values into the X path.
Okay, so you never pass the strings into the XPath.
You never pass strings into the X path.
Only the index numbers you can pass.
Only the index numbers you can pass.
So here our value C value.
You cannot directly specify the variables.
Instead of specifying the variables, you can keep that in the double quotes along with plus before
and after.
So now what happens?
Our value see value keeps changing in every iteration.
And then the new values will be substituted.
And this will able to capture the text value that I'm going to store in a string.
That's the string value.
And after that I will just try to print here this template or dot print line I can just print value.
So this is how we can read all the data from the tables and how we can pass parameters to the XPath.
Very, very important.
How to pass parameters to the XPath.
This is a syntax.
Okay.
Keep that variable in the double quotes first, then add plus before and after the variable.
Only two things.
Keep the variable in the double quotes.
I'll show you one more time.
Very simple syntax.
First, keep the variable in the double quotes, then add plus before and after the way variable.
Everything should comes under the double quotes.
This is a syntax okay now.
Let us run this.
So this is just like a two dimensional array.
What it is called.
So this is a syntax of the XPath.
Okay.
Normally uh if you take this one.
You people are not concentrating, actually.
So I'm repeating already multiple times.
See if you pass number.
Let's say here are passing one.
Okay.
Here I'm passing two.
This is the static value.
So this will get the data from first row and second column.
And here I'm passing two.
Here I'm passing three.
And this will get the data from the second row and third column.
But how we can pass this value dynamically.
Suppose I have something called row number is two and a column number is three.
Now I want to instead of passing the hardcoded value I want to pass this variables I want to pass this
variables.
So if you want to pass this variables what you can do is you cannot directly specify r and C like this.
You cannot directly specify the variables inside the XPath.
So but how we can pass this variables the data how we can pass into XPath.
So we need to follow the XPath syntax.
So first keep the variable in the double quotes and add plus before and after.
Same thing here.
Also keep that variable in the double quotes and before and after.
Add plus operator.
So now this r value two will be substituted.
Here see value three will be substituted here.
Okay, so this is how we need to write an XPath.
If you want to pass the variables as a parameters you need to follow the syntax.
You understood?
Everyone.
Is this clear?
To everyone?
Please confirm in the chat box.
So there is no specific name for the syntax.
This is syntax which we ought to follow in XPath.
If you want to pass parameters to the XPath, we have to follow the syntax.
Just put the variable in the two double quotations and you add plus plus before and after.
This is a syntax we have to follow.
Okay.
So very, very important.
This will be very, very useful in the coming examples.
Just remember this how to pass parameters into the XPath.
Same thing we applied.
So now let us execute and see whether it is able to read all the data.
Yes.
Right?
So now we got all the data, but it is not exactly in the tabular form.
We just captured the text.
Right.
But if you want to align exactly in the tabular format.
So I want to get the data exactly, uh, in the same format.
And the tabular format.
How we can do, we can just slightly design it instead of println.
You can say only print and after completion of inner for loop here you can just write one println so
that will jump to the next line.
And after printing the value, you can just give a one tab space.
When I say slashed, it will add one tab space between the data.
Okay.
Or you can say empty value.
So this will give add or else you can put something called slash D.
So this will also add one tab space after the value.
So now you will get exactly the data in the tabular format.
Okay.
I think this is a forward slash.
Okay.
So now we can see this is the backward slash we have to use.
So this is a Java command right.
So okay if I put backward slash t after printing the value it will give one tab space.
See.
Now you got exactly in the tabular format.
So this is the first row.
This is the second row third row fourth the fifth and the sixth row.
So we got all the rows except the header part okay.
So now suppose if you want to print header also I want to print the header also.
Then how we can do this?
I just want to print header.
So here we are starting from row number two.
We have just ignored the first one right.
So can we put row number one here?
If you put row number one, can we get header?
External.
According to the table.
When I say from the first row, can we get the header part when I start from one?
Actually we should get header also.
But in this table there is a problem actually.
What is the problem.
Let me show you.
So this is the XPath we have written right.
Go back and see this is the XPath we have written.
So here whatever row number we specified and TD means the table data specified.
It is capturing the data from the table.
It is just changing the row number and a column number okay.
Suppose if we put row number one row number because I want to get the header also.
So I put row number one.
And table data.
Also write TDF one.
So then C zero element.
Why it is zero element?
Because in the first row there is no TD tags.
In the first tr there are no t tags, only t tags are there.
Okay, so if you write an XPath like this, this is valid for all the rows except the first row.
Because in the first row there is no TD tag.
In the first row there is a t h tag.
So what is a problem in this?
If you put a t h here, then we cannot read the rest of the rows.
If you put a TD here, then we cannot read the header because header is having a separate tag and the
data is also having a separate tag.
So that's the reason I have eliminated.
Header part.
I have started from the second.

Okay, but if you still want to print header, you can simply write one print statement here only.
Header.
Right?
We can just print one statement print ln.
So you can put header like this.
So we can put the book name first.
Header is what book name?
Okay.
And then.
Given tab space.
And also concatenate the second column is what other?
Second column is other.
Concatenate again.
One more tab space.
And the next column is what subject?
Concatenate and give one more tab space and get knit.
And the last column is a price.
Just print the column names.
Column names.
Okay, now you'll get a column.
Names.
Now you can see along with the column names, we got all the data from the table.
So this is how we can read data from the table by passing values into XPath, or to parameterize the
data into x.
So is this clear, everyone?
So to read all the data from the table, we have to use a nested for loop.
Right.
Now let me show you another requirement.
Sometimes we have to retrieve the data based upon certain condition.
Okay, so let me show you something else.
Conditional based.
We can also retrieve the data.
So here we have read all the data all the columns.
Now my requirement is.
Read the data from.
Okay, read the data.
Or we can say.
I want to print.
Book names, whose author is Mukesh.
So this is a conditional based.
See in the table.
I have multiple books.
There are multiple books, but I want to print book names only.
If the author is Mukesh.
So according to this data, how many books are there?
How many books are written by Mukesh?
Toolbox.
This is the one book and this is another one.
Write.
These two books are written by Mukesh.
Now I want to print only book names.
They are written by Mukesh.
That is my requirement.
So how can we do this?
We need to think about the logic.
So first condition is what condition is based upon the name of the other other name.
Right.
So I want to print book names.
It can be any book.
But the author of the book should be Mukesh.
That's a condition.
So what we need to do now, we have to read each and every other one by one.
Wherever you find a Mukesh.
From the same row.
We have to capture the first column data.
And suppose Mukesh is matching here.
Then immediately capture this book and next go to the next rows.
And here one more time it is matching, so capture this.
So like this.
We have to repeat each and every other name.
And wherever the Mukesh is matching, we have to capture that value.
Okay, first thing, let us print other names.
How to print this?
Only other names from this table.
Let us write an XPath.
Only other names I want to print one by one.
So other name is in which column?
Second column.
So the TD should be what two.
When I say trough one.
From two we will start.
So now we can see tear off two second row second column.
First order is matching.
And suppose I say tear off three second order KF for next order.
Tear off five.
Next one tear of six.
Next one tear of seven.
Next one.
So just by changing tear number.
I will.
I will get all the other names one by one.
Right.
So I will try to use this XPath to capture the other names one by one inside the looping statement.
Okay, so I will write one first a looping statement.
And here I will start.
Our value from two are less than or equal to number of rows.
All the rows I want to continue then R plus plus.
And here I'm writing one XPath driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Okay.
Here I'm passing the R value, but two values fixed.
Do is fix the dot.
Get text.
So this will actually return the.
Other name so I can say string.
Harder name.
So here, just by changing row number we will able to get the others or not.
The column number is constant two we no need to change, but just by changing row number one.
Two next to three okay.
Just by changing the row number we are able to get other names.
So what I will do this r value I will pass here.
Instead of seven, I'll pass our value.
So then what is the syntax here?
Put that in the double quotes.
Use plus operator before and after.
So after that I will just print other names.
Okay, I will just print a other name here.
So what this loop will do for now?
This loop will read all the others from the table every other.
So let's try to execute and see.
We will get all others from the book table.
So we captured only others.
Column from all the rows.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Now we got all the others.
One by one.
We are getting into the looping statement.
But this is not our requirement.
What is our requirement?
If this particular other name is Mukesh then we will capture the book name.
So instead of printing what I will do I will put one condition.
What is the condition if this particular author name.
Dot equals Mukesh.
Okay.
If the other name is Mukesh.
So then what we should do.
If other name is Mukesh, what we should do.
Suppose here I put seven.
Where is the Mukesh?
Second row, for example.
Okay, now it is pointing to second row and the second column.
Second row.
Second column is Amit.
Third row, third row and second column is Mukesh.
Now this XPath is matching with Mukesh.
Now I captured a Mukesh.
What is our requirement?
If he is a Mukesh then I want to capture the data from the book name.
I want to capture the book name again.
It is a same row.
It is a same row, but the column value is one, column value is one.
So in the second column other name is there first column book name is there.
So this XPath is matching for what Mukesh.
Then on the same row that means on the same third row we have to capture the first value.
First column.
That is the book name.
So what I will do is I capture the other name by using this XPath.
If other name is equal to Mukesh, then in from the same row I will capture the first column data and
that becomes the book name.
You understood now?
Everybody's understood this condition.
Okay, so first I've captured the other name.
If he is a Mukesh, then immediately what I have done.
Same row, whatever row we have referred.
Same row.
But we went to first column and captured the book name.
I think this book name variable we already used somewhere.
Termites.
Okay, now I got a book name.
So then I will print here.
System.out.println.
Book name.
That's it.
So every row only row value will be incrementing.
But here the column values are constant, so we don't need to write another for loop.
Just one for loop is n.
Now just observe.
It is just returning the books which are written by the case.
So this is the way we can also retrieve the data based on the condition.
Yeah.
Now you can see learn Java master in selenium.
So I got a book names.
But along with this book names I want to also print other name.
We already captured the other name, right?
Can I print it here?
Yes.
Give one's tab space and then concatenate it with the other name.
So now I'll get a two columns.
Book name plus author name.
Okay.
Perfect.
So this is the book name is Mukesh book name and also Mukesh.
So this is how we can also read the data based on the condition.
So first we captured all the names and we then compare with Mukesh.
If it is equal, then capture the book name and print it.
If other than Mukesh, if we get any other other, the condition becomes false.
Then again it will go up and repeat the loop.
So everybody's understood this.
How to retrieve the data based on the condition.
Everything is expertise.
If you know the expert, how to create and how to use.
Everything will be easy.
Yeah, slash T is representing the one tab space.
So this is just a one tab space.
After printing the book name it will give you one space.
Then it will print author name.
So this is actually Java slash T will give you Java slash T.
If there is a duplicate Mukesh, it will count all the Mukesh.
See, Mukesh is duplicated right here and here.
Two times are repeated, so that's the reason it is returning two books.
It is returning two books.
I was in the output.
The output?
It is displaying two books.
No problem.
Even it is a duplicated.
It is counting all the Mukesh.
The question is doesn't make any sense actually, because I already put two times.
Mukesh is repeated two times here and here.
Duplicate you can have any number of times.
Doesn't matter.
It will read all the books from Mukesh.
Okay.
So now let me show you another requirement.
On the same table.
So here the last column.
You have a prices for each book there is a one some prices.
Now I want to capture all the prizes and I want to find the total price of the books.
That's my another requirement.
Here is only first name, but what if both mix has a different last name?
You can use contains method instead of equals.
You can use contains method.
Equals method exactly match with this string.
Okay, if you have a first name and last name totally different, then you can use contains method and
whichever is common you can put that.
Well, everything is depends on the methods.
Okay.
How we can use effectively.
Right now.
Let us see how we can find total price of all the books.
So how we can get it.
So first we need to capture the price for each book.
Then finally we have to find out total price.
But first of all we have to capture the prices for every book.
Right.
So let us see how we can achieve this.
Next one.
To find.
Total price of all the books.
Find the total price.
First of all, we have to capture the prices for every book.
So what I can do is I can write one XPath for this.
Which column it is fourth column.
So first go to the second row and fourth column.
So 300 is matching just a change only row number.
Column number is constant, so only just change the row number I say three now 500 matching four.
Then 300 is matching.
When I say fifth row 3000 is matching.
Sixth row 2000 matching seventh row 1000 matching just by changing the row number.
We are getting the prices right.
Same XPath we can use.
So same loop.
Same concept.
But politely.
We have to change.
Okay, so here instead of other name we will get the price.
So we are passing the row number.
And what is the column number of price for that we can specify here.
Let's try to print the prices.
Okay.
I'm just printing the price.
See you got all the prizes.
So when you capture the value from the web application, everything will be in the string format.
So even though it is displaying the numbers when you read the data by using get text, the get text
method is always written the string format data.
So if the data is in string format, can we do arithmetic operations?
Can we find total?
If the data is in string format, can we find a total of the prices?
No.
No.
If it is in string format, we cannot find total price because it will be concatenated.
Basically, when I use plus operator it will be concatenated.
So what we should do now, we should convert this price into number format integer format.
Right.
Then we can add.
So what I will do instead of printing the price.
I will take a one variable here.
Total integer total equal to making it zero initially.
Now what I will do is here I will write an expression total equal to total plus.
Because every time whatever I'm getting a price, I will add that price to the total value.
But if I add like this this is a syntax error.
Why?
Because the total is an integer variable, whereas price is a string type of variable.
So we cannot perform uh arithmetic operations.
So we need to convert the price into numeric format.
How to convert.
How to convert.
Yes, in Java we already learned it.
Integer dot pass.
Int of price.
So we converted this into integer format.
And then we have added to the total.
And after that.
So after completion of the for loop, because in every iteration you are getting new price that will
be added to the total.
And once the loop is completed, this total variable contains a total price.
So after exiting from the for loop here we have to print the total.
Total price.
Of the books.
Here.
I'll print the.
Okay 7100.
Fight.
So this is how we can handle web tables.
So we can do different type of operations.
Depends upon our requirement and depends upon the test case.
So everybody's understood how to handle static web table.
How to handle the static web table.
So how to find the rows?
How to find the columns, how to find the data, how to read specific row and column data.
How to read all the rows and columns data.
Everybody is clear.
Yes.
Now, based on this, I'll give you an assignment today.
And rest of the tables we will discuss in the next sessions.
Uh, dynamic table pagination.
We will see in the next class and the today session.
I'll give you an assignment.
You guys can try this.
So this is a web application.
Blaise de Morcombe.
Go to this website.
Okay.
So here, uh, it is just like a.
Booking a ticket functionality.
So here we already know how to handle the drop downs in the last class we already seen.
So what you have to do is from this particular page, select the departure city, whichever city you
want.
Select a destination city.
From the dropdown and click on the Find Flights.
Then you will see the table.
And in this table, what you have to do is.
You have to find the lowest price in the table.
Lowest price.
So there are multiple prices, are there?
Which one is the lowest?
$200 is the lowest price.
And once you find the lowest price, go to that row and click on the.
Choose this flight, whichever is lowest.
You need to click on that.
Okay, now you will get another form.
In this you can fill all this data.
First name, address, city, state.
All these are all normal input boxes.
Again this is the drop down box.
Put some dummy data and check box and then click on the purchase flight.
So once you click on the purchase flight you will see this message.
Thank you for your purchase today.
So you have to validate this message.
We have to validate this message.
So this is a one test case you have to automate.
And the major challenging thing is finding the lowest price in the table.
And this price may not be in the third row.
Sometimes it will be in the first row.
Sometimes the lowest price will be the last row.
Sometimes the lowest price will be in the middle of the row, wherever it is, you need to find it.
For that.
One logic we need to implement.
What we need to do is we need to capture the prices, information, all prices into an array variable.
We have to create one array, all prices we have to capture in that particular array.
And after that we have to sort that array.
Sorting of elements.
So once you sort an elements you will get the lowest to highest right.
So first to value have to take from array.
Okay, let me explain the logic.
Just try to implement this.
Because we already know Java arrays concept everything.
So we have to implement here C whatever topics we learn in Java we are going to implement C.
These are the current prices which we have.
So we need to capture all the prizes into area.
So for example, let's say this is my area I have taken.
So for 72.
432.
207 65 233.
Okay, so first we need to capture all the elements one by one into array variable.
Now we need to sort these elements by using arrays.
Dot two sort method is their built in method.
Once you sort it now all the values will be ordered in ascending order.
Once you arrange them in the ascending order, first value will be 200 and rest of the values will be
added.
So once you sort it.
Okay.
You need to capture the first value 200.
Okay.
And wherever 200 is matching, you need to read each and every value.
Wherever the 200 is matching, you need to go there and click on this link or button.
In the same row, you have to click on this button.
This is the logic you have to implement.
I will upload the solution also.
First try yourself your own self.
And whenever you get a doubt, just refer my example.
And rest of the thing is everything is same.
Normal flow only.
This is the tricky stuff.
But other than this, everything is a normal flow.
You can just go back and here is a starting point.
So you need to select the departure city and destination city from the drop downs.
Whichever you want, click on the find flights.
Then you'll get a table.
Find the lowest price and click on that.
Choose this flight and fill all the details.
Click on the purchase flight, then verify this message.
This message is currently displayed or not.
At least a thank you message should be there.
Can you do it?
So this is our assignment for today.
Some.
Try this.
I will also upload the solution for this, and if you have any doubt or if you stuck somewhere you can
go through my solution.
You will understand at least the sorting technique you can understand.
Okay, so let us stop here for today's session.
Tomorrow we will discuss, uh, other things.
Dynamic table, along with the pagination we will see in the tomorrow session.
Okay, so one more thing.
Uh, when you converting that into array, uh, I think you no need to, uh, convert actually, because.
Let me tell you.
So when you read these prices into array, it will come as a string actually, because the first character
is a dollar.
So you will read all the values in the form of strings and the strings.
Also, you can sort, right?
Even you can sort because the dollar is the same for every value.
So anyway, it is sorting based on the values only.
So string array you can sort string array you can sort.
So you no need to convert this into numbers.
Not at all needed.
Just capture this data in the single dimensional array.
Then sort it and capture the first value from array.
That will be the 200.
And go to this link and click on it.
So you don't need to convert this into number.
Nothing no need because we can also sort a string arrays right straw sort method will work for strings
also.
So there is no necessity of converting the data.
So you can just follow as it is.
Fine.
So that's all for today.
I'll stop here.
Tomorrow we will discuss.
One table, which is dynamic as well as pagination both in one single table.
But practice this today session.
You need to understand this.
Otherwise you can't understand the pagination table.
But in the pagination table there are so many things we need to understand something new.
Stuff we will learn in the pagination table.
All right, so that's all for today.
I'll stop here tomorrow.
We'll.