https://testautomationpractice.blogspot.com/?__a100skip=1

Okay, so in the today's session I will see how we can handle drop downs.
Providence.
Now we can see a drop down box.
Right.
So drop down is a most important topic.
So let us see because there are different type of drop downs we will handle them in different ways okay.
Some predefined methods also there and without predefined methods also we can handle the drop down.
So majorly there are three kinds of drop downs we can see on our applications.
So the first type of drop down is normal selected drop down and bootstrap drop down and then hidden
drop down.
So these are the three kinds of drop downs we can see normally in our applications.
So if we have a selected drop down this is very easy to handle because we have some built in methods
are available.
So we can easily handle those selected drop downs.
So these are the default drop downs.
And most of the latest type of applications nowadays having bootstrap drop downs and hidden drop downs.
So these are the two latest technologies.
But the old selected drop down is a old one.
And sometimes you can see select drop down.
Sometimes most of the times you can see bootstrap and hidden drop downs and different approaches are
there to handle these drop downs.
We'll see one by one.
So first let us start with the select drop down.
So how we can handle the selected drop down.
And one more thing.
Uh in these three drop downs only the first type of drop down is having select tag.
If you inspect that a drop down element in HTML you can see select tag.
Okay.
And then you can confirm that is the selector dropdown.
If you see if you're able to see selected tag in your HTML, you can confirm that is a selected type
of dropdown.
And if you don't see selected tag, sometimes you can see div tag okay.
And other than div tag some.
Sometimes you can see button tag or some other some other else tag.
So those are all comes under bootstrap or hidden dropdown okay.
If you're able to see selected tag in HTML that comes under the selected dropdown.
And other than select if you are see any other type of tags that comes under Bootstrap or hidden dropdown.
Okay, so I'll show you simple example.
How we can handle these three types of problems.
First, let us start with the select type of dropdown.
Select dropdown.
So I'll show you a sample example.
So let's go to test Automation practice.
And here if you look at this.
There is a drop down called country.
Right.
There are multiple options are there in this kernel drop down.
So if we inspect this element.
And you can see select tag here.
And if you expand the selected tag you can see multiple option tags.
So every option in this dropdown is having a separate tag.
Okay.
So how many options are there in the dropdown there.
You can see those many number of options present inside the select tag.
So these are our options are child tags of selected tag okay.
And this is called selected dropdown.
So as soon as you can see select tag here in HTML that is called selected dropdown okay.
Now.
The dropdown element itself is one web element.
And inside this there are multiple options.
Are there right.
Every option is a web element.
So that means one web element contains some more web elements.
So the drop down itself is one web element.
And inside this the each and every option is also a web element.
Every option is a web element because these are all child elements of the parent element that is drop
down.
Okay, so if you inspect this element in HTML you can see that.
So the select this is the element which is representing the entire drop down.
And then.
Okay.
And then if you expand the selector tag you can see multiple options.
So each of every option is a web element.
Okay.
Now we'll see how we can handle this type of dropdowns.
So let's go to eclipse.
Create a new package.
Sort, creating new class.
Select.
And drop down.
Okay.
So now we'll see how we can handle the selected option.
So first of all we need to create a WebDriver instance launching application and all those things.
So let me do it.
Okay so WebDriver object created.
This is implicit.
Wait.
And this is our application launching and then maximizing the web page.
All right.
So first we'll see how we can handle the drop down.
So whenever you see the drop down what is the first action we do.
We will select the value from the drop down.
So we will select one of the option from this drop down like this right.
So these are major option, major action we do most of the times.
But before that we have to capture this element.
Okay.
How to capture this drop down element.
And from that how we can select these value.
So whenever you see a select type of or drop down to handle this, we have to use something called select
class.
There is a predefined class is available in selenium.
Selenium which is called select.
How could this is a class?
So by using this we can handle the select the type of drop downs.
Not every drop down only select type of drop downs we can handle by using select class.
So for that what we need to do is first let us inspect this element.
This is a dropdown element and select a tag.
Is there class option class attribute ID is there.
So if I go back and see the selector hub and which is given an XPath by using id attribute, it is given
XPath for that element.
So I'll capture it.
And try to find that element.
Driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Okay, now this element we have to store in a variable.
But taking DRP country.
Some variable and type of the variable is obviously web element.
Okay.
Web element.
So now import this web element.
Yeah.
So now we capture the drop down web element.
But the next thing is we have to choose one of the option in this dropdown, right.
So it is not directly possible.
So we can capture this element as a web element, drop down as a web element.
But every option is a web element again.
So what we have to do is whatever element we have captured, we have to pass this element in the select
class object.
So we have to create something called select class.
We have to take.
Select.
Okay.
And uh this is element we captured DRP country element.
And that we have to pass in a variable select DRP country.
Equal to new select, and whatever element we capture, we have to pass it inside the select object.
Like this.
Now we need to import this.
Select from org OpenCV selenium support dot UI.
This is a process.
So first we have to capture the dropdown element.
Then we have to create a select class object.
Inside that object we have to pass the dropdown element.
So this is a special class which we have to use.
If you are working with select type of dropdown and if you are able to see select tag in HTML that is
called as select dropdown.
Okay.
Now once you create a select class object, by using this object we can perform other type of operations
like what are the operations we can do?
We can select the value or option from the drop down like this.
Or suppose sometimes I want to find how many options are there in the dropdown I want to count how many
are there or sometimes I want to retrieve each and individual values.
Right.
These are the different operations we can do.
So we'll see how we can do those operations.
So we capture the drop down as a web element.
Now we have passed into the select class object.
So now we'll see how we can select the option from the drop down.
Select option from the drop down.
So to select the option from the dropdown we have three methods are available in the select class.
And we already created an object.
So through the object we can access those three methods.
So by using three methods we can.
Uh, we can select the value from the drop down.
So what are those three methods?
Select a bike.
Visible text selected by value, select by index.
So these three methods are available in the select class itself.
So we can access them by using an object of the selected class.
So we already created an object called ERP country.
So by using this we can access this method.
Only one of the method is enough.
Three options are available.
Three methods are available.
We can use one of the method.
Select by visible text.
Select by value.
Select by index.
Now let me show you how we can select the option from the dropdown.
So we need to take this select class object drp country dot.
We can type here select by visible text.
Select by visible text.
And here we need to pass which option we want to select.
So in this there are so many options are there.
Let me select something called France f r e n c e.
So that happened to us.
Like this.
So what is a visible text?
Visible text means whatever we can see in this UI.
These are all visible text.
So whichever option you want to select from the dropdown, you can pass that value as a string variable
like this.
So select by visible text.
And this will able to select the value from the dropdown.
So now execute and see.
Yes.
Now we can see the Francis got selected here.
This is one option.
Select a by visible text.
Select by visible text and there is one more option.
Suppose, uh, one more method is there so I can say drp country dot.
Select A by value.
Select A by value.
So most of the people will confuse here what is visible text.
What is value?
Value is an attribute of the element.
Value is an attribute of the element.
So if you look at this particular options in HTML, every option tag is having a value attribute.
Can you see here the value attribute?
So what is the value of the value attribute is something we need to specify that.
So suppose if you look at here let's say Japan and Japan is a value right.
So I can just pass it.
In the double quotes we have to pass, and sometimes the visible text and the value will be the same.
So if I look at this, uh, you can say here it is a Canada.
And the value of the value attribute is also Canada.
Right.
But there is a difference is visible text is started from uppercase and the value started with the lowercase.
And here if I look at here the visible text is United Kingdom.
But the value is what you get okay.
Sometimes they may be similar.
Sometimes it will be different.
So don't think value is nothing but not a visible text.
Visible text is a different.
The value is different.
Visible text means these are all inner texts which we can consider as a visible text, and value means
the attribute of the particular option element, right?
So now I want to select something called Japan so I can pass it as a Japan.
Here select by value.
And when to use it.
Sometimes if you don't find value attribute, sometimes you don't have a value attribute in HTML.
In that case, you cannot use visible uh, select by text.
Sorry.
So selected by value, so you cannot use this method if you do not have a value attribute in the HTML.
So that's the reason they provided multiple options.
Sometimes you may find that option, sometimes you may not find it.
So if the value attribute is available for that option then only you can use this method.
Select by value and select by visible text.
You can every time you can use because visible text is always present, but select by value, you can
use only if the value attribute is present.
So now let us execute it and see.
It should select Japan.
Yes.
So now we can see it is selected Japan from the country.
So this is one method.
Select by visible text.
Select by value.
Now the next method is.
Select by index.
DRP country.
So what is this DRP country?
DRP country is a select class object.
So we should not use this web element directly because the drop down is one web element inside this
option.
Every option is a web element.
So we cannot directly use this web element that we have to pass in the select class object.
Then we have to refer the select class object to access all the methods.
Now DRP country dot.
Select by index.
So what is an index where we can find it.
So we cannot find index specially in HTML.
We need to count manually.
So for example index will start from zero again.
So this is 1012345678.
Like we need to count it okay.
So for example uh I want to select uh.
Okay, United Kingdom.
So what is an index of 012?
So now I can pass two as an index.
Okay.
So I can pass two as a an index.
Let's see and execute select by index.
So you have to count this manually.
Run as Java application.
Okay, now you can see United Kingdom.
So options we need to count from zero.
Index will count from 012.
Like this.
So United Kingdom 012.
So United Kingdom is got selected.
Okay.
So these are the three methods are available.
Select by visible text.
Select by value.
Select by index.
By using one of these method, we can select the value from the dropdown.
It is very easy, very straightforward, but if you go with the bootstrap dropdown or hidden dropdown,
you don't see these methods because we do not have a select tag there.
So we need to handle them differently.
So these methods are applicable only if you have selected dropdown.
Select a tag you should have in the HTML.
Then only you will able to create a select class object.
You will able to use these methods.
Okay.
Now let me show you one more operation.
So this is how we can select the value from the dropdown by using these three methods.
Select by visible text.
Select by value.
Select by index.
Now.
Mm.
Zero is always starting index.
Okay.
We need to count index zero.
From, especially from top down.
Index.
Most of the cases index will start from zero.
So, but index is not an attribute of the element.
If it is available, no problem.
You can use that.
No issues.
Okay.
Okay.
So okay.
Let me understand.
Let me just try to do it sometimes okay.
Let's say you have a selector tag like this select ID equal to CRP down something.
Or you can say ID equal to.
You need to change it according to your HTML.
Okay.
Let's say this is my select.
Inside this there are multiple options.
Are there.
Let's say one option is having something called.
Normally we have a value attribute okay.
Value is equal to.
Suppose I am and visible text is let's say India.
Okay, now the option tag is got closed.
So suppose if you see selected tag like this.
So normally you can use this value as an attribute.
This is an attribute right.
So we can use value select by value method.
So if you want to use select by visible text you need to pass this one.
If you want to use select by value, then you have to use this one.
If you want to use select by index, then normally we will count index from 01234.
But sometimes you can see one more attribute here called index like this.
Okay attribute.
Now here index is a attribute.
It is available as an attribute.
So then what we can do you can use this index zero right.
So that you can use as an index itself.
Okay.
So this is an attribute.
Index equal to zero right.
So you can pass zero here.
So even that is also correct.
Sometimes it may I won't see many times.
But sometimes if you see this you can pass it or else.
No.
Okay.
This is.
You can pass.
No problem.
Even if you're not seeing this attribute.
Still, you can pass index 01234 like this.
Still, that will work fine.
Okay.
So this is how we can handle the drop down.
We can select the option from the drop down.
Next one.
Suppose my requirement is I want to find how many total number of options in this particular dropdown.
Okay.
I want to find total number of options.
And I want to compare that with my expected number.
That's a part of my validation.
So my requirement is I want to check whether this dropdown is having ten options or not or 20 options
or not.
So how we can do that?
So we will try to first capture all these options into a variable.
Then we can count how many are there.
Okay.
So how to capture all the options from the drop down.
And we now need to write a common XPath here because which is a selected dropdown, we can easily handle
this.
So normally if you want to capture multiple options or group of options options we will write a one
common XPath or we will use a common locator.
But here to capture all the options from the dropdown we use one method called Get Options.
Capture the options from the drop down.
So how to capture?
Very simple.
Take this select class object drop country dot.
There is a method called get options.
Get'er options.
So this particular method will return all the options into a variable.
I'm creating one variable called options.
Okay options.
Now, what is the type of this variable?
Get options method will return.
A list of web element because every option is a web element.
Every option is a web element.
So if you return multiple web elements, the return type should be list of web element.
It is just like a find elements.
So normally if you write a common XPath which is pointing to group of web elements that will return
list of web elements, same thing get options also method which is returning multiple web elements.
And what are those web elements options.
Now import this list collection.
Right now we got the options.
So once you get an options can we find how many are there.
So I can say System.out.println.
Options dot sys.
Okay, this will give you total number of options in a drop down.
So.
Number of options.
In a drop.
All right.
Now execute.
I'm not selected anything.
I'm just capturing the number of options.
I already captured the options and then I'm just printing total number of options.
Okay, now I can go back.
Yes.
Now I have a ten.
Options are available in ten countries.
Are there in my drop?
Okay.
Now suppose I want to print those options in my console window.
Printing the.
Options.
So whatever options I've captured.
Whatever options have captured from the dropdown, I just want to print them in the console window.
Let's say ten options are there.
So I want to print those ten options.
So how we can print them.
So we already captured all the options as a web element.
Now we need to print them.
So if you want to use normal for loop you can use it or else we can use enhanced for loop.
So first let me show you with the normal for.
For.
Okay.
So options is a list collection basically right.
So where is the index will start zero.
So I'm taking index int I equal to zero.
How many times you have to repeat depends on the number of options.
So I less than.
Options dot size.
So it depends upon the number of options.
And I plus plus every time I'll increase the size.
So listen carefully so how we can.
Capture the.
Elements from the drop down.
See even in the last class.
Also, some of you having some confusion here.
So what is this?
Options.
Options is a list collection.
List collection and what is there inside this list collection?
Here there is one option here, another option here.
Another option here.
Another option right here.
Another option.
What is these options.
Actually these are the web elements okay.
These are the web elements.
Now there are multiple positions.
So in every position of the list collection there is a web element.
Now what we have to do is we have to capture the web element from this position to get the web element.
From this position we use a get method, get off zero or get off one.
So when I use get method, that will return the web element from that particular position.
And once you return the web element then I'm using get text.
Okay so what is get method will do.
Get method will return the particular web element from that list collection.
Once it is returned, then I apply get text.
So this will extract the text of that particular web element.
So we cannot print web element directly because web element is a type of an object.
Which is having so many attributes and methods and so on.
So first we will get the web element by using get off zero or get off one and get off two and get off
three and so on.
Once you get the element, then we will capture the text of the web element using get text method.
So these are the two methods we have to use simultaneously now.
What I will do is here.
First, I will get the web element from the list collection how we can get so from the options.
From the options.
Dot and get off.
So here I will pass index I representing the index 01234 and so on.
So I pass I.
This will return the web element.
And from that web element I'll capture the text value by using get text method.
So that will return the actual, uh, text of the web element text of the option that I am printing
here.
System.out.println.
Options dot get of I dot get of text.
All right.
So this is how we can write a normal for loop.
To read the options from the dropdown.
Okay.
Let's execute now.
So most of the times we try to use, uh, enhanced for loop, it is better to use it instead of using
a normal for.
Okay.
I have not selected anything so far.
I go back, see all the ten countries are got displayed here.
Right.
So this is how we can also find how many options are there by using get options.
And we can also capture each and every option one by one.
And from that option we can extract the text value.
So what is another method is get options.
So what this method will do?
This will return.
Returns all the options.
From the drop down.
As a web element.
Every option is a web element.
Remember this.
Okay.
This is one more method which is available in the select class.
Okay now.
Let me close this.
All right.
So now let us see how we can use enhanced for loop.
Get options is only for selected type or drop down.
Yes.
Yes.
So what are all methods I'm discussing here?
These are all belongs to select class object.
So if you have a selected type of drop down then only these methods you can access.
Okay.
If there is a other type of drop down how we can do these operations we will see that okay.
So the get options get visible text from where we are accessing all these methods.
We are accessing all these methods from the select class object.
If I look at here drop country dot select by visible text drop country dot select by value select by
index.
Even get options also have access from the drop country.
What does it mean?
All these methods are present inside the select class only.
So if we have a selected class drop down then only we can use select class object.
Okay.
Now let me show you how we can do the same thing by using enhanced for loop.
Using enhancer loop.
It's more simpler than above.
Very simple.
Let's take.
We already captured the options.
So take that variable and read each and every option in a variable.
I'm creating one variable called op.
Now what is the type of this variable.
Obviously it is a web element because options are contains a multiple web elements.
We are reading each and every web element one by one into this op.
So op is a web element.
What can we directly capture the web element here from the options.
So once you get a web element from that web element, you can capture the text by using get text method.
Here.
We don't need get or anything because we are not using any index.
Okay.
Just print op dot.
Get text.
But here we are using index, right?
That is the reason because we have to first get the web element and then find out the text.
But here we already capture the web element into OP from the options.
So that web element dot get text and directly used.
So this also will print all the options from the drop down.
Yes.
So now we got all the options.
Okay, so this is how we can handle normal drop down which is having selected tag.
The first type of drop down.
Okay.
Everything is clear so far, everyone.
So please confirm in the chat box.
You understood about normal selected drop down.
Next we will move on to the next one.
So select the dropdown is very easiest because the built in methods are available.
But bootstrap and hidden is a challenging stuff.
Fine.
So how we can identify a drop down is a normal selected drop down or not.
In HTML or when you inspecting the dropdown you will see select tag.
Okay, if you are able to see select tag in HTML, you can confirm that is a selected type of dropdown.
And then you can apply this approach.
All right.
So now the next method next one is bootstrap drop down.
So this is something the latest type of drop down bootstrap drop down.
So you don't see selected tag for those type of drop downs you can see div tag.
Or sometimes you can see button tag okay.
Tags will be different but it is not selected tag.
Now I'll show you one example for bootstrap drop down.
So let me go to some application.
Okay.
Yeah.
So look at this.
This is the actual HTML code which is got created to design this bootstrap term.
If I look at this this is the drop down and which is having options along with some checkboxes also.
Right which contains some checkboxes.
Also option contains a checkbox.
Also this is a different type of dropdown.
So if you inspect this element and again this is also multi-select dropdown in the dropdown.
Again there are two categories one single option we can select.
Sometimes we can select multiple options.
So in the previous example we can select only one dropdown one option at a time.
We cannot select multiple options.
But here we can select multiple options.
So this is bootstrap and also multi-select dropdown bootstrap and also multi select dropdown.
You can select multiple options okay.
So bootstrap and also multi selector dropdown.
Okay.
Now if you look at this and inspect this element.
So you can see button tag here.
Okay.
You can see button you don't see selected.
And if you expand this.
Okay.
This is button.
And inside this nothing is there.
This is just a multi-select as what are the values by default is got selected.
They are displayed here.
And if you inspect this UL option user list, every option is present inside the Li tags you can see.
Every ally is having internally one anchor tag.
And inside this again we have a label tag.
And inside this we have a actual label web development.
This is a label actually.
And let's go to the next one.
And you can see LA tag inside this anchor tag inside this label.
Again inside this an input tag.
So this input is representing the checkbox.
Label is representing the text beside the checkbox okay.
For example jQuery is a label.
Beside this there is a checkbox.
So here input is a checkbox.
Label is the actual value of the option okay.
So this is the hierarchy we can see in this every element is same thing again la tag anchor, tag label
and input.
So you may you may not have the same kind of hierarchy in every type of postterm it is keep changing.
So accordingly we have to handle the different way.
So basically all these items are present inside the li.
Inside the li, there is an anchor tag.
Inside the anchor tag, there is a label and input label is representing the text of the option.
Input is representing the checkbox of that particular option.
Okay, this is what we have understood from the HTML.
So now we will see how we can handle this, how we can perform different operations on this dropdown
and this.
In this we can select single option.
We can select multiple options also okay.
And XPath will play very very important role in this type of dropdowns especially hidden dropdowns and
bootstrap dropdowns.
We will totally depends on the XPath only okay.
So we'll see how we can handle every operation we can do only through XPath.
Let's create a new class.
Boot strap.
All right.
So we created one WebDriver object.
And this is implicit wait and launching the application and then maximize.
Right.
So how to handle the first operation?
How to select an option.
Select how to select multiple options.
I will show you through the looping, but if you want to select a single option.
Select the single option from the drop down.
Here.
The select class won't work.
Okay.
Select class you cannot use because it's not a select class.
Uh select object.
So select the single option from this drop down.
So by default HTML, CSS is already selected.
Now I want to select another option.
So simply what you can do is uh we need to first click on this element like this.
We need to perform the click action.
Okay.
So for that we need to first locate the element.
This is the element button element.
So capture the export of this element.
All right.
See if you take this XPath.
Will it work every time?
So to identify this element selector hub is given this XPath.
When I use this XPath to locate this element every time, this XPath will work.
Know why.
Because this XPath is got generated based upon the.
Value which is got selected.
Suppose tomorrow some other values got selected.
Okay, now we inspect this element.
Expert will be different.
So here the options will be different.
Okay.
So we should not, uh, write XPath uh, like this based upon the values titles okay.
So we need to write one common XPath.
So how we can write one common expert for this.
So without using the existing options, we want to write a common export.
Okay, so let me write my own XPath.
So instead of using title attribute.
So the title attribute is there.
But the values are not uh standard.
These values keep changing.
Okay.
And other options we have like a data toggle we cannot use and uh type is equal to button.
Maybe the other options also may have the same type.
So other thing other than this we have a only class attribute.
So in the class we can see multi-select right.
So we can write like this.
So at the rate class I'm taking class attribute.
Okay class attribute equal to.
And, uh, selector hub is giving something here.
You can use this option.
See one element is matching, so button at the rate class is equal to multi-select drop down toggle
btn.
So this is able to locate an element.
Okay.
Again, it seems very lengthy.
Write the class name attribute is seems very lengthy, so I don't want to specify the end a lengthy
one, I just want to select only multi-select so I can use one more thing called contains method.
So we have a contains method right contains at the rate class comma.
And here I just say only multi-select.
I remove the rest of the thing.
I can just remove it.
Okay.
And then close.
Right.
This is also correct.
This is also able to this is more, uh dynamic.
Right.
So this is perfectly fine if even if you specify the full class name, sometimes some part may be changed.
Here you can say drop down toggle btn btn default.
These things may change.
So multi-select is a common.
So I can just put like this contains class attribute is multi-select.
So this I can use.
So you can write many ways, but whichever you want, you can just keep using it.
Now.
Here.
I can directly click on the element driver dot find element.
By XPath.
And here I want to perform the click action.
So when you do click action then it will open other options.
So once you perform the click action on the dropdown element, then only other elements are visible.
Other options are visible.
So this particular command will open.
Drop down.
Options.
Okay, so once you open the drop down options now we will able to select the value.
So I'll keep this before this because this command is most important.
So once you click on this it will open all the options.
Now we will select the single option.
So if you want to select the single option, you can direct option direct approach.
Okay.
For example, let's say this is a default stuff.
When I click on it, it will open up options.
Now I want to select one of the value.
Let's say I want to select a Java.
So then simply you can inspect the check box Java checkbox like this.
Not label.
You have to select the checkbox.
Okay.
Now it is got generated one x path and use it directly and say driver dot find element.
By dot x path.
And dot click.
Dot click.
So this will select an option from the dropdown.
So if you want to select a single option, if you want to select a single option you need to do like
this.
Fine.
Execute.
Yes, you can see Java is also got selected here along with the two default options.
Java is also got selected.
Okay, so if you want to select a single option from the drop down, you can directly get the XPath
of that option and perform the click.
Suppose my.
I want to select all the options.
Okay I want to select how many options are there in the dropdown.
So how to?
First we need to capture the option.
Then we can count how many are there right.
So this is my first requirement.
Select a single option from the drop down.
Second requirement.
Capture.
All the options.
And then find out.
Size.
So long to capture all the options and then find out the size.
This is most important thing.
So here we don't have a get options or anything.
We have to write our own XPath.
So capture all the options and find out the size so we can do this.
So we need to write one common XPath, which is matching with all the labels in this particular dropdown.
Okay, so if you look at the XPath look at the HTML.
All these options are present in what.
UL tag.
Okay.
Inside the ul tag.
Inside the ul tag.
Every le tag.
Suppose I'm explaining one li tag.
There is an anchor tag inside this.
There is a label tag.
Inside the label there is a input tag.
So label is having actual.
Value.
Okay.
So this what is the label?
Suppose I'm expecting this one label.
If I inspect the label here you can see the value.
In this label, the value will be displayed.
These values will come at the runtime actually.
So that's the reason exact values.
We cannot see uh, inside the HTML.
So the label is empty actually.
But this value will be substituted at the runtime.
An input box is there.
So we need to capture labels from all the options.
Okay.
So how we can write an XPath for this now.
First I'm going to directly use ul tag.
I'll go to ul.
I'm starting from the ul.
Here it is inside the UL, where we can find the labels inside the UL.
Inside the allies.
And inside each and every alley there is a anchor tag and inside the label.
So I just want to skip this middle.
Tags from UL.
I will directly jump to the label from the UL.
I will directly jump to the label so I can say ul slash slash.
Label.
Slash slash label.
Just observe.
14 elements are matching.
14 elements are matched.
Okay.
Or what you can do is I can write like this.
This is one XPath you can write or you can put one attribute ul at the rate class.
Okay.
And uh, for the UL class attribute, is there Multiselect container drop down menu.
Right.
So that I can use ul.
Contains the Adelaide class.
And here I can put multiselect.
Multi-Select.
So this we already written previously.
So this is the expert we have written, which is actually matching the drop down element, the entire
drop down element.
But in this we have to go label section.
So you can directly say label.
But it will go to the label.
This is also correct.
14 elements are matching.
Okay, so now we can get this X path to capture all the options from the drop down.
Go back to here.
And, uh, so what is the command we have to use?
Find?
Elements.
So driver dot find elements.
By dot XPath.
And, uh, this will return all the options.
So l I slash a I have not I've skipped it because we have written the relative path right in the relative
X path slash.
Slash will directly jump to the element label element, so it will automatically skip the between elements
like, uh, anchor tag is there right between Li and anchor tag.
So these two will be skipped from the UL.
It will directly jump to the label tag.
So in between whatever the tags are there, it will automatically skipped.
Why?
Because we use relative XPath.
Relative XPath slash slash will directly jump to the element.
So actually how we have to write first we need to go to anchor tag.
Then you have to go to uh, inside this we have, uh.
Label tag.
So first we need to go to Le tag, then anchor tag, then label tag.
So this is how we need to write normally right.
So if you want to skip in the middle tags you can skip it by writing just a slash slash.
So this will return the 14 elements.
Okay.
So now this will return all the labels from the dropdown into a variable.
So I'm storing them in options variable.
The type of the variable is what again list of web element.
Okay, so we got capture all the options from the drop down.
Now if you can find easily right.
You can say number of options.
So.
Number of options.
How we can get options.
Dot size, so this will give you a total number of options.
So this is the way we have to capture all the options from the drop down.
So only everything is depends on the XPath.
Okay, so we have written one XPath which is pointing all the options in a dropdown.
Fine.
So let's execute and see.
So commenting the first one for now.
Okay.
So.
Total number of options 14.
Okay.
Now the my next thing is.
I want to print them.
So I want to print all those options.
Printing.
Options.
From drop down.
Third requirement, so printing the options from the drop down.
Same again.
We can write a normal for loop or we can write enhanced for loop.
Anything is fine.
So I can directly write an enhancer for loop, because you already know how to write a normal value.
So very simple.
You can take this.
Options.
And get each and every option in the variable.
I'm taking one variable called op.
The type of the variable is again same web element, same procedure again.
Once you get an option the procedure same.
And here I can print op dot, get text.
We have to extract the text from the web element.
So this will print all the options from the drop down.
Run as.
Java application.
Okay, now you can see we got all the options from the drop down.
So because we already captured our options by writing proper XPath and just read each and every option
into the variable, then get the text of that particular option.
Okay.
Suppose my requirement is like this because it's a multi-select dropdown, right?
I can select multiple options.
Also, if you want to select a single option you can go with this.
You can directly write an XPath for that particular option for that particular checkbox and perform
the click action.
So that will select the one checkbox.
But I want to select multiple checkboxes multi-select dropdown.
Right.
So how we can do that.
Select multiple options.
So whenever you want to select multiple options, better to go with the looping statement.
Otherwise you have to write the same statement multiple times.
So which suppose you want to select five items or five options.
You need to write the single statement five times.
So instead of going with this just try to use a looping statement.
Okay.
Now this time I want to select multiple options.
So how we can select a multiple options.
Same concept, same loop.
Okay, so we are getting each and every option in this, right?
That is basically a label.
Basically there's a label.
Right.
So what we need to do now is we need to.
Capture the text.
And whichever element you want to select, you need to compare that value by using if condition.
Okay if op dot get text op dot get text dot equals.
Okay.
For example, I want to select a Java.
Okay.
What else you want to select?
Java.
I want to select and I want to select Python also.
So or we can use our operator our op dot get text.
Dot equals.
Dot.
Equals.
Then if it is a Python Python.
Also I want to select.
Are.
So like this you can put all the options, whichever option you want to select.
Then I want to select MySQL.
MySQL or op dot.
Get text.
And get text.
Dot equals.
MySQL.
Pascal is uppercase.
Right now close this condition.
So what are all options you want to select.
You can put them here.
So as soon as you get the text value if it is a equals Java or instead of writing this much what we
can simply do is get the text op dot, get text into your variable.
So here you can take one string variable.
Okay.
You can take one string variable string option.
Okay.
Now we need to compare.
Take this option and substitute here.
Okay, so instead of writing this, you can do like this.
You can take another variable.
So we are capturing the text value in a variable.
Now we're comparing the text value equal to Java or Python or MySQL.
Whatever it is we want to select it.
How we can select we can simply say option dot click option dot.
Not option op.
OP is an actual web element, right?
OP dot.
Click.
So this will select the option from the dropdown.
Okay.
So let's try to execute and see.
So Java, Python, MySQL.
So by default the two options are already selected.
HTML, CSS.
But apart from this I want to select three more options.
Run as Java application.
Yes, now I can see Javi's got selected, Python selected and MySQL is selected.
So this is a way we can select multiple options from the drop down.
Okay.
Very simple.
Lie is enhanced for loop C enhanced for loop doesn't follow any indexes.
So many times I have explained, I think in the last class itself we have lot of discussion on this.
See why we have not used get method in this enhanced for loop.
Because from the options, we will directly get the web element in this variable.
So from that web element we are extracting the text.
Okay, but if you go with the normal classic for loop, it's not like that.
If it is a normal for loop, we have to use a indexing concept.
I think this is the fourth time or fifth time I'm repeating this.
I don't know whether you are interesting or not.
So this is the list collection.
In this we have multiple options.
Okay.
These are all web elements actually.
So these are all web elements, web elements in the sense the object type of data.
So we are if you are following index in the normal for loop we have to follow index right 0123.
For index we have to follow.
So if you want to get this element first element we have to use get of zero.
And then we have to extract the text of from the web element.
So we have to use get text.
This is the approach we followed in the normal fall loop.
Because we are following indexing concept, we are not directly getting the web element.
We are getting the web element by using index.
So get off zero will get the web element on top of it.
We are applying get text, same thing, get off.
One will get the element and then on top of it we are using the get text method.
This is with the normal for loop approach.
When you come to the enhanced for loop, the approach is like this.
Even enhance enhanced.
For loop we have a list collection.
We have an options okay.
These are all web elements in enhanced for loop.
What is happening is from that options we are directly getting the web element in this variable.
So this variable contains a web element.
Okay, so from that web element we can directly extract the text value because we are directly getting
the web element into the variable.
From that variable we are extracting the text.
But in case of normal for loop, we are not directly getting the web element.
To get the web element, we have to use another method called get get off zero, get off one, get off
two.
By using get method we have extract that web element first.
On top of it we are using get text.
But here why we have not used get method because we already getting the element into the variable op.
So that is the reason we are directly using get text.
Get is not needed here.
I hope you guys have understood why.
Where we have to use get where we should not use get.
So this is the last time I will repeat again.
I don't repeat this because this is the fourth time or fifth time.
And also this is very basic concept.
Okay.
So whenever you want to use index then get method will come into picture.
And whenever you want to use enhanced for loop index won't follow there.
So we can directly get the web element in this variable.
We apply the get text.
Okay, now let's move on to the next thing.
So if you want to select multiple options by putting one condition, you can select whichever option
you want.
So everybody's understood.
This is all about bootstrap element bootstrap drop down.
So whatever operations we have done in the normal selector drop down the same operations we have done
in the bootstrap drop down also, but in the different way, without using built in methods, without
using built in methods only we dependent on completely XPath.

Okay.
So this is a bootstrap drop down second type of drop down.
And the bootstrap drop down.
We don't have any built in methods.
Everything we should handle through XPath.
Now hit and drop down the third one.
Which is very popular nowadays.
The latest trending applications are using hidden drop down.
Let me show you an example for hidden drop down.
Why I'm calling hidden drop down means the options are hidden.
The options we cannot directly inspect, we cannot see those options directly on the web page.
Okay, let me show you some application.
Not an SRM application.
I'm logging into this once you log in.
Go to Pam tab here.
Click on Pam.
Okay, now you can see there is a form.
Uh, employee name, employee ID status, okay.
Include job titles, subunit.
Many things are there.
So if you look at this job title or employee status or subunit, these are all hidden dropdowns.
All we can say.
They are the hidden dropdowns and what basis we will say that is an hidden dropdown.
Let us inspect this element first.
When inspecting this element, you can see there is a Du tag.
There is a div tag.
But inside this.
Inside this.
These options are not visible in the HTML.
These options are not visible in the HTML.
In this case, we can call it as a hidden drop down.
Hidden drop down.
Okay.
So these options are not visible in the.
HTML, then how we can.
Select that option because there is no selected tag.
So we cannot use built in methods.
And these options are also not present in this HTML.
If these options are not available in HTML, we cannot inspect them.
If you try to inspect what will happen.
Let's see.
I just want to inspect some some item here.
Database administrator.
As soon as you right click on this element it is disappeared.
It is disappeared and you are not able to see anything in the HTML you can see.
Database administrator because you already selected here.
But before selecting I want to inspect one of these options.
Suppose automation tester for right click.
It is disappeared.
Okay.
I am not able to see all these options in HTML at a time.
Because that is most important when you're writing an XPath.
Right.
If you want to select one option from this drop down, you at least you have to write an XPath for one
element.
And suppose if you want to capture all the elements, you need to write one XPath which is commonly
there for all the options.
So until unless these options are visible in your HTML, you cannot.
Work on these options.
Okay.
And this is also a dynamic dropdown.
So these options will be loaded at the runtime.
Okay.
These options will be loaded as soon as you click on this option.
These options will be available as soon as you close this element the options are disappear.
So these options are dynamically coming.
And we can otherwise we can say this is auto suggestion box.
These options are suggested here.
Okay.
So until unless these options are visible in HTML, we cannot inspect.
We cannot write XPath.
Until.
Unless we write an XPath, we cannot handle this.
This is a major challenge of hidden drop downs.
Okay, so then how to handle this?
So we have to make the options are visible on the HTML.
That is the first thing.
Then only we can do anything on this.
Then only we can perform any operation on the drop down.
So then how we can make them visible on the HTML?
That is a major part.
So once they are visible in the HTML, then we can proceed further.
Anything we can do, but how we can make them visible on HTML.
So to handle these type of drop downs, selector hub is provided one option, which is very, very helpful
for one of the feature in the selector hub.
So by using that feature we can easily handle these type of drop downs, even auto suggested drop downs.
Okay.
And hidden drop downs.
We can easily get them.
So I will show you very quickly.
Just observe very carefully so you can know that.
So by default you will see this drop down like this.
And if you try to inspect this drop down you cannot inspect.
Can you inspect this?
But you will not able to see any options visible in the HTML.
Now go to Selector hub.
In the selector hub, there is one feature called.
Uh, debug on feature.
This is the one turn on debugger.
I think the fourth icon in the selector hub I can see.
Fourth icon turn on debugger.
So by using this option we can make options visible on the HTML.
Okay.
How we can do that.
Very simple.
First we need to click on this turn on debugger.
So once you click on this turn on debugger within five seconds you need to click on this element within
five seconds because the time of this debugger is only five seconds.
So first step we need to click on this turn on debugger within five seconds.
Immediately we have to click on this.
So once you click on the drop down.
Then immediately the screen will be freezed and the elements will be displayed on the Or.
Elements will be visible on the HTML.
I will show you.
Listen this.
I'm clicking on the debugger.
And immediately I click on the drop down.
Wait for few seconds.
Now you can see the screen is got freezed.
Once it is freezed then go to elements.
Right now if you look at this.
Expand this tag.
You will.
You can inspect now.
You can inspect whichever element you want.
You can see all the elements are still dynamically loading, but you will able to see each.
And we are able to inspect at least.
Right.
But earlier.
Those options are disappeared.
You are not able to anything.
Now you can see every option is there in the div tag.
So if you expand this you can see here.
But these options will be displayed at the runtime.
You can see account assistant.
You can see automation testers.
Now you're able to see all the options.
In this.
You are able to inspect those options.
Okay, so this is the main stuff.
Again, if you just want to stop, you can stop the debugger.
Again.
Go here.
Okay.
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Here there is an option.
You need to just click on it.
Resume.
Resume means everything will be stopped.
Okay, so from once it gets stopped, you cannot do anything.
That's it.
So this option we have to use I will show you one more time.
See very carefully.
So by default if you try to inspect like this, if I'm right clicking on some element here disappeared
I'm not able to do right click anything.
Right.
So I'm not able to writing anything.
Suppose if you want to do this.
Through selector hub, we can see.
Inspect.
And go to Selector hub.
Take this turn on debugger.
And then click on this element.
Options are visible.
After five seconds, it has got freezed.
Now go to element section.
Now you can inspect this element.
Whichever element you want, you can inspect.
Take this inspect option, you can select which are.
Inspect whichever option you want, you can inspect.
Okay.
So this is a way we can use this turn on feature.
Okay.
So this is by using Select Hub.
There is other other way is also there I will tell I'll let you know.
But this is a option which we can use for now.
So let us see how we can do this.
Let me create another example.
Okay, so I'll show you one more time.
Listening very carefully.
First thing, you need to open the selector hub.
Inspect.
Open the selector hub.
So once you open the selector hub.
By default you will not able to inspect any element.
See it is disappearing.
Every element is.
If I right click here, just disappear.
Okay.
So what you need to do is you need to click on this turn on debugger and immediately open the drop down.
So click on debugger.
Click on the drop down and wait for five seconds.
Yeah.
You need to wait till the screen is got freezed.
So once the screen is got freezed, then what you have to do, go to elements.
Now you can take this inspector and you can inspect any of this element.
So now in the HTML also you can see all the options.
Role attribute is there right.
So whichever element you want you can click on element.
You can see the div tag of that element and the inner text of the element.
And once job is done you can just stop this.
Then it will come back.
So this is how we can use it.
Is it clear everyone how to inspect these elements using selector hub debugger option?
Just click on the debugger, turn on debugger, click on the drop down.
Wait for five seconds.
The screen will be freezed, then you can start inspecting the element.
Okay, now let's create another example.
Handle.
Hidden drop down.
Suppose if you don't have a selector hub, but it is a little difficult to do that, but there is some
option in the dev tools.
I will show you that.
He didn't drop down.
Okay.
So now.
Right.
So we created driver instance.
This is our implicit weight.
Launching the page maximizing the page.
Right.
So the first thing.
Again, same operations.
Whatever we do, we will do it.
But before getting this, we need to first log in and then we need to go to PIM.
And then we need to navigate till we have to come till here.
Right.
So for that I have already some script.
I'm just clicking.
I'm just copying that piece of code.
Yeah.
This is just login steps, okay.
So username entered password enter.
Click on the login button and after successfully login I click on the PM tab.
And then I got a drop down.
Okay, so the first thing is before getting these options, if you want to get all these options, we
need to click on the drop down like this.
So how to click on the drop down.
So first inspect this element.
Dropdown element.
And go to Selector hub.
We need to write our own X path.
So we need to click on this arrow mark.
This is the one.
Okay.
So this is the relative x path which is given.
One element is matching.
Just a moment.
You okay.
So I'm just taking this dropdown entire dropdown.
And this is the XPath which is generated press enter one element matching.
So I'm using this XPath.
This expert fee is for drop down.
So driver dot find element.
By Dot bath.
And here I want to perform click action.
Okay, so once it is clicked, this will.
Open the drop down.
Clicked on.
Drop down.
Okay.
So once you click on the dropdown it opens all options.
Now we need to select a one option.
Select.
Single option.
So if you want to select a single option, we need to write an XPath for the single option.
So if you right click, if you click on it and try to read uh try to right click on any of these options.
It is disappearing actually.
So what I want to do is I want to select something called finance manager.
And if you try to inspect this element, disappear.
So now what we should do?
We should go to this turn on debugger.
Click on this drop down.
Wait for five seconds.
Screen is freezed.
Now go to elements.
Now we can inspect whichever option finance analyst I want to inspect.
So in this.
Take this inspector and find out the financial analyst.
So this is the element.
And for this XPath is got generated.
One element is matching.
Capture this.
So driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Dot click.
So direct click method you can use.
So this will select financial Analyst.
Facilities.
Login.
Go to PM.
Yes.
ANZ financial analyst just got selected.
So if you want to select a single option, you can directly write an XPath.
For that option you can select.
Count the number of options.
Count the number of options.
Total number of options.
So again we need to write an XPath which is matching with all the options in the dropdown.
So we need to write one common XPath.
So how to write a common XPath?
Actually, the element option is available in the span tag.
If you inspect every div tag here, this option is available in the span tag, right?
So.
But where is this div and span tags are available.
Here is in the parent div.
So these are parent video.
And there is a role option role equal to list box.
And inside the div multiple divs are there.
Every div is pointing to every application if you inspect the div option.
If you expand the div option here, you can see in the span you can see the actual value.
So we need to write an XPath properly.
First, let's start with the parent div tag.
So inside the div tag.
I'm using.
Role attribute.
Role.
Equal to.
Role equal to.
So what is a role in the parent div tag?
So all these dues are part of the.
Main diva.
Let me inspect one more time.
So these are all the Du tags.
So role equal to list box.
This is the element.
It's always the listbox.
Now it is pointing to all the elements inside this I'm directly going to span.
Now 28 elements are exactly matching.
See 28 elements are matching.
So this XPath I can use.
And this writing this XPath and everything is possible only if your screen is freezed okay.
Otherwise it will be disappeared.
Okay.
And once your job is done, then you have to stop the debugger.
Okay, let me finish my job.
And then I will show you how to stop the debugger.
Copy that.
XPath.
And try to use it.
Driver dot find elements.
By dot x path.
Dot.
And capture all the options.
All options into variables.
So this is again list of.
Web element.
Okay, now we got options.
Now we can simply count it.
System.out.println.
Its number of options.
Options.
Dot size.
So this will give you total number of options in a dropdown.
So once you're able to write an XPath everything is easy.
Still it is counting.
Zero.
Okay.
Just don't.
Okay.
So actually we made a mistake.
So after clicking on uh just comment this one.
And after clicking on the dropdown, it is taking a few seconds to display all the options.
So I will put a thread dot sleep here.
Five seconds.
Okay, now I can see after using weight statement.
After five seconds it should capture all options from the dropdown.
Yeah.
Now we got a 29 options.
But this is a size of option.
Okay.
Sometimes the options will come very slowly from the dropdown.
So in that case you will get a zero elements okay.
So to avoid that you can just put some sleep statement 3 seconds or 5 seconds below five seconds.
And that will solve the problem.
So a number of options we can get like this.
Now I want to print all those options in the console window.
Printing options.
Again, you can use a looping statement.
Enhanced for loop.
So whatever options I've captured, I keep them in the variable called op.
That is again a web element.
And, uh, how we can print this from the web element op dot get text.
So get text is a method which will return the options.
So this will print all the options from the drop down.
But it is not a multi-select, so we cannot select multiple options at a time.
We can select only one option.
Google search box.
I will show you how to handle that Google search box.
Okay.
That is an auto suggested dropdown.
Google search comes under auto suggested dropdown because in that case the options are keeps changing
so you will not get the same options there.
Okay, so these are the.
Current options which you have, so 29 are there.
So this is how we can get the options from the hidden dropdown.
So this is hidden auto suggest dropdown is a different auto suggested dropdown is like this.
Okay.
Before that let me stop this debugger.
So to stop this debugger you can see one option here pass in debugger.
Right.
You just click on this uh step over next function call.
And there is a resume script execution is there F8 is a shortcut key.
And if you click on it it will stop.
Okay.
That option is there.
So auto suggested drop down is different.
So auto suggested means what.
Suppose you will have a Google form here.
So if you type something here I got some auto suggestions.
But these are all dynamically you are getting.
And every time you may not have a same number of options, every time you will have a different count.
Every time you will have a different options.
So these are all not static values actually.
Okay.
So in this case also you can write one dynamic XPath which is capturing all these options.
And we can select whichever option you want from this.
So this is auto suggested auto suggested dropdown.
So this is the different.
Okay.
We will see that later.
So this is also there.
There is also comes on the drop down but is auto suggested.
Drop down we can say.
Okay, so is this clear to everyone how to handle hidden drop down.
So before selector hub earlier, uh, dev tools is provided one option to handle the hidden drop down.
So.
But probably in the latest browsers are available or not.
Not sure, but we will try is suppose go to dev tools inspect.
In the dev tools.
There is something called event listeners here.
Go to event listeners.
In the event listeners, there is an option called click here.
Just try to refresh.
Go to click here.
And in this document, if you expand some document here, one of the document.
You can see something called blur option.
And you need to remove that blur option.
Somewhere you can see that.
Our focus.
Yes.
Yeah.
You can see the blur.
Okay, so you need to go to this blur option.
And whatever you can see, you can just try to remove this.
Okay, so once it is removed now we can try to inspect this element.
Now we are able to inspect.
So this option we can use from the Chrome browser.
Other browsers I'm not sure, but Chrome browser you can see that option.
So whichever element you want you can inspect.
And that also visible in the.
Our HTML.
Okay, so earlier we have done like this, but once the selector hub came so then it is more becomes
easy.
Understood everyone.
So this is how we can handle the drop downs.
How to suggest a drop down?
I will explain that later because I need to combine that with another topic how to handle the dynamic
elements.
So in that topic I will cover auto suggest drop down elements okay.
So this is all about selector dropdown bootstrap dropdown and hidden.
So based on this, I'll give you a few assignments today.
You guys can try them.
Uh, three assignments.
I will give it to you.
First assignment.
Okay.
Go to this particular page.
So okay, so in this particular page you can see, uh, country drop down and state drop down, country
and state.
So what is the requirement is first you need to go to this page and count the total number of options.
In the countries here just count the total number of options.
Print all the options and select one of the option.
You can try this okay.
This is normal selected dropdown.
It is just a normal selected order.
If you inspect this element you can see the selected tag.
You can do like this.
Now the second example hidden drop down again.
Go to orangehrm application.
Log in to this website.
Once you log in, go to Pam.
So here we have seen job title.
Right.
Similarly you have something called employment status.
You can see freelance full time, part time.
So whichever you want you can select so employment status you can try to handle this problem.
Employee status.
And the other one is.
Multi-Select dropdown.
So in this application.
You have another drop down here below one colors.
In this there are multiple options.
This is also select box.
If you inspect this element you can see the select tag options are there.
So the only the difference between this one and this one is here we can select only one option at a
time.
But here you can select multiple options.
So you can try to do it through automated okay.
So multiple options you can select in this multi select drop down.
This is multi select.
You can say combo box.
This is also you can try.
Colors.
Multi selected box.
Okay.
Try these assignments for today's session.
And tomorrow, uh, we'll see some more options.
Okay.
So that's all for today.
I'll stop here.
We will continue tomorrow session.