All right.
So today is the first session.
So we'll start with introduction of API testing.
So I hope everybody is already know about uh web automation web testing.
Like so in the web web testing what you will do normally we will test the UI part user interface right
in the browser.
We will try to access the application and we will try to validate the functionality of the application
in the browser level.
So that is part of UI testing or GUI testing or functional testing.
So API testing is totally different than UI testing.
UI testing is also comes under the uh, front end testing.
Okay.
If you take any application there are two different parts front end and back end.
So front end in the sense what the browser from where we are accessing the application from the server
through the URL.
And we are trying to access the different functionalities of the application and we are testing it.
So that is a part of presentation.
That is a part of presentation layer.
So we are basically call it as a uh UI testing.
Right.
So when you come to the back end testing there are two parts.
Again one is API testing, other one is database testing.
So these two types of testing comes under the back end testing.
So we more focus on back end part API is purely dealing with the back end parts.
So we are not going to deal anything with the front end application okay.
So before understanding API testing.
So first we need to understand some basic concepts.
So some basic terminologies we need to understand before starting API testing.
So today we will focus on them some basic terms.
And what is API testing.
What are the different types of API testing and what are the things we should know before starting API
testing.
And then we will try to understand that and then we will move forward.
Okay.
So if you take any web applications for example, what is web based application.
Anybody knows what is web application basically.
How many types of applications are there in the market?
How many types of applications which we have in the market?
Basically three types of applications, right.
Three types of applications.
One is web applications desktop applications, mobile applications.
So broadly we can categorize all types of applications into three.
Desktop applications web applications and then mobile applications.
So desktop application is nothing but what desktop application means what it is a standalone application
which we can download and install on your system.
And you can work with that without having any network or internet.
You don't need any internet to work with the desktop application.
So what are the examples?
So currently we are using Excel file or Ms. Word document presentation PDFs notepads calculators.
Right.
So these are all desktop applications.
You don't need to connect to internet to work with those type of applications.
There all comes under desktop applications.
Then what are the web based applications?
So web based application means what the actual software or application is installed on a server somewhere
in the network, and you are trying to access it through the browser.
So here the client and server, there are two terminologies come into picture.
So client is nothing but what.
So as a user as a customer I'm trying to browse some application through the URL.
That is basically called as what a client.
But actual web application is got installed somewhere in the server in some remote machines in the internet.
That is basically called as a server, right?
So web applications are basically follow the client server architecture.
So there should be a client, there should be some server.
So all the resources data everything is available in the server.
But we are trying to access it through the client application.
And all web applications are comes under client server applications.
So if you want to work with the web applications, we have to connect to the internet.
So we need to have a network in place.
Then only we will able to work with the web based applications.
Okay.
And what is the third type of applications which we have in mobile applications.
So mobile applications are examples are what every day we are using WhatsApp LinkedIn and different
type of uh applications on your mobile.
Right.
Which we are downloading from Play Store iOS everyone.
So these are all comes under mobile apps basically.
So these are the different type of applications.
So basically in the market we have a three types of applications desktop applications web based applications
and then mobile applications.
So especially the APIs will be used in web applications and also mobile applications okay.
Especially APIs will be used in web applications as well as mobile type of applications.
Mobile applications especially.
Right.
So here we need to first understand what is client and server.
Simple understanding.
In simple terms a client is a device or a software like our computer or our mobile.
Or we are using some browsers different type of browsers, Chrome, edge, Firefox, some type of browsers.
So what exactly we are doing with these things?
We are sending some request.
So for example you're opening a browser.
What exactly you are doing in the browser.
You're browsing some information to browse the information.
What you will do, you will do some kind of a searching or you will open some URL in the browser.
So what exactly you are doing there?
You are sending some request from the browser and you are expecting some response, right?
What client is doing?
Basically here the client is sending some request and to get the response from the server.
So client is basically what it's a computer or it is a phone or it's a browser, Whatever it can be,
so the user is directly accessing the client and uses it in front of the client, and it will use or
browse some data from the server, which is basically called as a client.
So the what is the fundamental job of the client?
It will send the request and it will get the response.
And who is receiving the request and who is sending the response server.
So what is a client job just for sending the request.
But who is receiving the request?
Server will receive the request.
Server is able to process the request and server is able to send the response to the client.
Okay, that is the server responsibility.
Even server is also a kind of a computer, but it is a super computer.
It is having higher configuration which contains all the software's resources, services, so many things.
Okay.
And what is the client responsibility?
Client will just send the request and server will receive the request and accordingly, based on the
request, it will process the request and after processing it will consolidate and it will send the
response to the client.
Now as a client, I will see the response.
Right.
So that is the job of the server.
So what is the basic understanding of client and server.
The client is used for what sending the request and server is used for what processing the request.
Receiving the request.
Processing the request.
Sending the response that is taken care by the server.
So this is the fundamental the terminology which we need to understand client and server, especially
in the web.
Web based applications we normally call it as a client server.
And client is belongs to presentation layer whereas server is belongs to back end layer.
Back end means it can be database server or it can be application server or it can be web server.
Again, there are different type of servers are there to process for To maintain the data, we use some
type of server, which is basically called as a database server.
So which contains only data.
And to process the request we use certain type of server which is called as a web server and application
server.
Different type of servers we will maintain at the back end, especially for web based applications.
For desktop applications, we don't have any type of servers.
Everything will be there in the application itself and especially for mobile applications.
Also, we will internally maintain the servers.
Suppose we are using WhatsApp or we are using LinkedIn.
We are using all payment payment apps in your mobile.
So actually the data is coming from where from the different servers, we are getting the data into
our apps.
So the client and server basically used in web applications as well as mobile applications.
So wherever you say client and server definitely there will be some API's takes place.
Definitely there should be some API's.
Okay.
We will discuss what exactly API means and all.
First we will try to understand what is client.
Client is a simple computer or a software, or it's a mobile phone, or is a browser through which we
are able to send our requests to the server.
Simple understanding and what is a server means it will receive the response.
It will receive the request from the client and process the request and send the response to the client.
Simple way we can understand what is client and what is server.
And if I look at this picture simple you can understand.
And between the client and server we will play the role internet.
There should be some network and all the devices should be connected through the network client and
the server.
That is the relationship between the client and the server.
Okay, now so let us try to understand few more important things.
There are three kind of three kinds of architectures.
Normally we follow in the client server.
We call it as a client server architecture.
So most of the times, like a desktop, applications mostly follow one type of architecture, one tier
architecture, because there is no specific, uh, database server and web server.
Nothing.
There is no network internet nothing.
Is there single system standalone system in which the everything will be installed?
So for example, if you are opening a notepad and you are typing something and you have save the file,
is there any is there any process going on in the back end?
Nothing.
There is no process.
Just file will be saved and whatever file is got saved, it will be stored in somewhere in your memory.
That's it.
So you're opening the application on the same computer.
You are entering the data in the same computer, and you are saving the file in the same computer.
There is no specific database server or processing.
Nothing is there.
So that is simply called as a one tier architecture.
Single tier or one tier architecture.
There is no differentiation between the client and server.
Nothing.
When you come to the two tier architecture, there will be a database server and all client applications
will be connected to the database server.
This is also called client server architecture.
Some computers will be connected to the database server.
Mostly intranet applications will use this architecture.
So what is the intranet applications?
What is the difference between intranet and internet applications?
Anybody knows what is the difference between intranet and internet applications?
Intranet is nothing but what suppose within the organization.
Within the organization.
Okay, there are some systems and all systems are connected to one single database server.
So for example if you go go to the bank some branch right.
So there are multiple people will work on multiple computers, but all of them are connected to the
single server and that is intranet.
So whatever they are accessing inside their company or inside this branch, we cannot access them outside
of the branch through internet.
Right?
Because they are intranet applications, they use their applications in their local environment.
So they follow normally two tier architecture.
They will have a database server in their local environment and all the client applications, all different
computers will be connected to the database server, which is basically called as a two tier architecture.
Now the third one is three tier architecture or entire architecture.
We can call what is three tier or entire architecture means.
Especially web applications are example for it.
So in web application mainly there are three different layers.
One is client layer which is basically a browser.
And whenever you send some request or whenever you browse some URL first, that will go to a middle
layer, which is called as a business logic layer, which is the second one from the business logic
layer that will go to the database layer.
So the whole application is divided into three different sections or three different parts.
And these three different parts will be located in three different areas, not on a single system,
because the client will be working on one single system and business logic, or the server will be there
in some other location and database server or machine will be there in some other location, and all
three are connected.
And if the application is very complex, suppose if you take a bank, there are hundreds, thousands
of branches will be there and each and every branch, they are having their own server, their own local
server.
And again all branch servers will be connected to the main server.
Let's say you take some city, a big city, let's say Delhi.
In the Delhi there are so many branches are there for single bank.
So each and every branch, they are having their own local servers.
Again, all the local servers will be connected to one main server within the city.
And again, there are multiple cities are there in India.
So all the cities, the main servers are connected to another main server.
So like that the architecture keep on increasing.
So there are multiple database servers.
There may be multiple business logic layer.
So it is called retail or entire architecture.
So mostly the web applications follow three tier architectures three tier architecture okay.
So client server architecture means there is a client, there is a server.
And again in the server there are different type of servers.
We have a database server web server application server basically which these servers are contains a
business logic to processing the request.
So we'll talk about this in detail in the coming slides.
So this is basically three tier architecture one tier architecture two tier architecture three tier
architecture.
In one tier architecture there is no database server.
There is no, uh, business logic, nothing.
Everything in single system, single applications.
Two tier architecture means there is a database server connect.
All the clients will be connected to the database servers.
All internet applications are example for two tier architecture or web applications are examples.
For three tier architecture there is a client business logic layer and database server.
Okay, so now let us try to understand exactly how the web applications build in which what are the
different levels are there and what are the different technologies.
Normally we use to design the web application.
So basically if you take any web application, as I said, there are three different layers presentation
layer, application layer and data layer.
The data layer is also called as a data base layer.
Actual data will be reside in that like we have MySQL, Oracle, Postgres, SQL server, MongoDB.
So these are all the different databases available in the market.
So to store the data we use these databases.
So to have these databases we will maintain the different server machines which are comes under the
data layer.
On top of that we have something called application layer.
Application layer basically contains a business logic which is also called as a middle layer.
What is business logic?
Actual functionality.
So for example, let's say you are using some banking application and you are logging to your banking
application.
You want to find your account balance, right?
You are.
Send some request from your application.
You are just opening.
Or if you want to generate some report from where exactly the data will be pulled and the data is exactly
present in the data layer, but you are trying to request from presentation layer.
You are trying to request the data from the presentation layer, but actual data is reside inside the
Database layout.
Actual data is reside inside the database layer, but how exactly you are getting the data from the
data layer.
So you are here, but actual data is present here.
How?
As soon as you send the request.
But how you are getting the response.
So the application layer will take care of it.
So which contains a basically business logic.
So what is business logic means.
It is a functionality.
It is a logic a programming logic.
So as far as you send some request, the business logic will be triggered based upon your type of request.
The business logic will be send the same request to the database layer, and the process will be happen.
Once the process is done, will get the response and the same business logic will provide the same response
to the presentation layer.
So the business layer or application layer is acting as a mediator between the presentation layer and
the data layer.
So basically this presentation layer is a GUI graphical user interface, our browser, our mobile application,
our computer.
These are all presentation layer.
So wherever you are trying to access the data from the server, that all comes under presentation layers.
Application layer is responsible for processing the request.
It doesn't have any data with it.
Application layer just contains a business logic.
What is that logic implemented by programming and who is responsible writing the programming part?
Developers are responsible for writing the business logic.
So this application layer is responsible for whatever request the presentation layer is sent.
The application layer will receive the request and process it in the database layer.
Capture the response and provide the same response to the presentation layer.
So that is all taken care by the application layer.
And data layer just contains only data.
Nothing.
Only database having data.
So these are the three different parts of any web application contains.
So the first part presentation layer the UI part will be designed by using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.
If you learn web automation testing you are already aware of these things.
HTML is nothing but a hypertext markup language used for what?
Designing the web elements like.
If you want to put some input box or text box, some radio button, drop down box, some frame or some
image, if you want to place these type of elements on the web application, HTML will be used.
And what is the purpose of JavaScript here?
To make action.
To apply action on the elements.
For example, you are clicking on some button.
So some action should be happen and that particular action to be written inside the JavaScript.
So what is the use of CSS Cascading Style sheet.
We can design the website more attractively, more colorfully.
Alignment, size, font.
All these things will be taken care by CSS.
So basically HTML, JavaScript and CSS will be used to design the presentation layer part.
So this is all taken care by the front end developers.
There is a separate team is available for front end development.
And application layer contains what business logic.
So this business logic is implemented by programming.
And who is responsible for writing the programs developers like.
They use Java programming or dotnet, C sharp, Python, C plus any programming language they use to
develop the business logic and who are responsible for designing this part presentation layer.
We call them as a front end developers.
There are two kinds of developers.
Front end developers.
They are responsible for only this part and back end developers.
They are responsible for what this one even database level.
Also, there are developers and designers.
They are working on this particular layer.
So that means to build the whole full fledged web application.
They are different skill set.
People should work on different levels like presentation layer, application layer and data layer.
And finally every layer should be communicate each other like again, we have to integrate the front
end with the business logic.
And without business logic there is no use of front end.
And even if you have a front end business logic, there should be data present in the database layer.
Otherwise there is no use of front end and the business logic.
Right?
So these three should be there in every web application.
So the front end developers, back end developers, database developers always works in different levels
of the applications.
Now, where exactly APIs are comes into picture.
So we already know about the web applications.
So where exactly the web testing come into picture in the first place?
Here we do the web testing or GUI testing graphical user interface testing.
So what exactly we do in the web testing we will verify the functionality of the application.
We are verifying the features.
Different functionalities are properly working or not on the UI level that comes under the web testing.
And if you do testing in this particular level, so what exactly the business logic means here?
As I said, business logic reside here.
What is business logic means what it contains.
Actually, the business logic is nothing but a set of programs developed by developers.
Okay.
And these programs or these logics available in the form of APIs.
API is nothing but a collection of a classes or Java classes, or some business logic.
API contains some business logic.
So for example, let's say there is an API and we will send some request from the client and what API
will do.
The API will receive the request and it will send the same request to the server.
And it will process here and send the response to the API.
Now API will present the same response to the presentation layer.
So what exactly API is doing?
Application programming interface.
And there are three different terminologies.
Are there application programming interface.
Application means what it is assisting basically for the application from where we are sending the request.
Programming in the sense what which contains the programming part.
This is actually purely programming part.
And what is an interface.
It is acting as a mediator or interface between the application and the database.
So that is the reason the name comes as application programming interface.
And what is this API contains again business logic.
Business logic in the sense an API collection of APIs and depends upon the type of request you have
sent, corresponding API will be triggered.
There are hundreds thousands of APIs will be there in the business logic, so it depends upon the type
of request.
Corresponding API will be triggered and it will do the process.
So this is a web testing here.
Whatever testing we do that is all part of web testing.
So here whatever we do which is all part of these two are again back end testing.
And again in the back end testing.
Here we conduct API testing.
And here what type of testing we will conduct in the third layer, what type of testing we do here.
Data base testing.
Data base testing.
Okay, so web testing.
API testing and the data base testing.
So API and database is purely related to back end testings whereas web testing is purely related to
presentation layer.
Front end testing.
Okay.
So to become full fledged tester or automation tester you need to have idea about all these three layers.
You have to know web testing.
You have to know what is an API testing how we should conduct.
And you have to know about database testing.
So these are the three different levels of testing we have to conduct.
Okay.
So web testing skills are different.
Again there are different tools are available to do web testing.
And API testing is totally different.
Again there are different tools are there to perform API testing.
And database testing is also totally different.
There are different tools are there to perform data database testing.
So different type of people, they do different type of testing.
But if you have a skill set on three different type of testing, then it will be very strongest profile
for you.
So you need to have full fledged automation tester or full fledged QA tester.
If you want to become, then you need to have skill set of web testing, API testing and database testing.
So if you conduct testing at the presentation layer or the front end layer, which is basically comes
under web testing, if you test the application layer of you test the business logic, then it comes
under API testing.
If you test the database level then that is called database testing.
So now we are focusing more on this part API testing okay.
So now we will try to understand what exactly API and what it contains, how exactly the API works and
what we should test as part of API testing.
So we'll try to understand few more important things.
So far.
Everybody is clear.
Please confirm in the chat box.
Everybody's understood.
What is client, what is server?
What are the three different type of architectures and what is presentation layer?
Application layer.
Database layer.
What these layers contains basically.
Okay.
Yeah.
So now let us move on to the next one.
What is an API?
Simple.
Full form of API is what.
Application programming interface.
Application programming interface.
It is not a, just a nor.
It is not just a abbreviation.
There is a meaning in it.
Application programming interface.
Why?
It is an application because it is assisting to the actual front end application.
So without API there is no use of front end application.
So from where we are getting the data to the application in the browser.
API is providing us actually.
So API is providing us.
So for example how these three things will be connected.
I'll give you a simple example.
Let us say you have a Gmail application or any email application.
What you will do.
First you should do login part.
So you do login.
So you enter username.
You enter some password and you submit it.
You click on some submit button.
So as soon as you have done some action here this is a front end part.
So what exactly happened?
It will not directly log into your application.
First the API will be triggered.
So what this API will do whatever username password you have processed here, you have sent here as
part of your request will be received by this API.
Now what this API will do whatever username password you are passing here that is already there or not
in the database.
This is your database.
So this API will get this username and password send to the database and it will check again.
This username and password is a part of this database or not?
If it is there, then it will return a status or sign a true or false, and if it is a true, then this
API will allow you to log in.
Otherwise not.
So what exactly this API is doing?
Whenever you send a request, it is getting the data along with the request.
Do some processing in the database and also allowing the user to log in.
So what is an API here?
The API is basically assisting to the application, which contains a business logic, which is basically
a programming acting as an interface between your application and the database server.
This is simple understanding what is an API.
Okay, so application programming interface is just like a messenger to help two programs or systems
talk to each other.
For example here.
What are those two systems here.
Your front end application your database in these two.
Between these two, your APIs sits in between these two and it will do the job.
Okay.
So application programming interface.
It is basically like a messenger that helps two programs.
Or it can be two systems.
Talk to each other and share the information.
Share the information and why the API is important.
Here if you do not have this API, will you able to connect from the front end to database directly
without having business logic?
No, there is no use because this part is developed by front end developers.
This part, the database part will be taken care by the database designers, database developers, and
all those people.
And APIs will be developed by the developer, functional developers, programmers.
And finally they will integrate everything.
Now you tell me which component will be developed first in the real time environment.
So here we need to understand why API testing is important.
So in the real environment which component will be developed first?
Database or APIs or frontend?
Which one can you guess?
What is the first part.
So they will first develop the database part.
Okay.
They will first focus on the database part.
So once the database some data is available then they will focus on developing the APIs.
That is the second step.
First step second step.
After developing APIs then the frontend will be ready.
This is a step by step process.
Okay.
And this is the development aspect.
Now when you come to the testing aspect so which one you can test first which component you can do testing
first.
First which which component.
You can test whichever first available.
You can immediately do the testing on that component right.
Whichever is available first You can do testing on that component.
So for example, let's say before the front end application is ready, let's say APIs are already there,
already developed by the developer.
So will you wait for the front end application, or will you directly test the APIs so we can test the
APIs?
Right.
So why?
Because to make the application works internally, the API should be ready without API.
Even though the application is ready, nothing will happen.
You cannot test the functionality if the API is there.
If the business logic is implemented, then only you can test the UI also.
Otherwise you cannot test.
You cannot test any functionality, right?
If the login code is not implemented, just the screen is not provided.
What you will do with that screen?
Nothing, right?
So in the real environment normally what happens the database will be ready first.
Then developers will focus on API development.
That means they focus more on business logic implementation, and after that they will focus on the
front end application.
Okay.
But earlier in the previous days, 4 or 5 years back, people more focused on the front end application
testing.
Web testing means what?
70% of the testing on web and only 30% of the testing on APIs.
So they will more focus on 70% of the testing on the web.
Only 30% focus will be on the APIs.
That is the previous way we are following.
But nowadays we are more focusing on the APIs first.
70% of the people, 70% of the focus we are putting on APIs testing and we are testing web only 30%.

So why is it so?
There are multiple reasons why we need to shift this percentage.
Because before the front end application is ready, API is already developed.
So how how why we need to waste our time unnecessarily, and why we need to wait till this front end
application is implemented.
So API is already ready and actual data coming to the application only through APIs.
So instead of waiting for the application, if you directly test the API by sending the request and
getting the response, if you validate these two.
So we can do a minimal testing on the application side.
Right.
Because what is the base of this front end application APIs only.
So instead of testing the application before that, if you do more testing on APIs, then lot of testing
will be reduced on the application layer.
So if you do functional testing more on API level, on the front end application, we can just focus
on the UI part like alignment of element size of an element.
So UI elements validations you can focus on instead of testing the more functionality area.
So that is the reason nowadays companies are more focusing on API testing instead of web testing.
So web testing is also important.
But when I give priority to API, testing is a first priority and then web testing is a second priority.
But at the time of learning, first you need to give priority to the web testing, then learn to the
API testing.
So because until unless you know how exactly web applications are working, you cannot understand about
the APIs.
So that is the reason you have to learn first web testing, then go to the API testing.
But in the real environment we will focus more on API testing.
First we do back end testing APIs, databases, properly communicating or not.
And when you send some request you are getting proper responses or not from the API.
So you will focus more on that.
So once the front end or web is ready, then you will focus more on the web testing.
So this is how the things will happen in the real time.
So what is an application programming interface?
What is an API?
It is just like a messenger or an intermediary layer works between your presentation layer and the database
layer.
So simply we can say it is a messenger that helps two programs or systems talk to each other and share
the information.
So for example what food delivery application.
So in the food delivery application what you will do normally.
So when you select some restaurant and we place the order for example then what happens what the app
will do.
Now app will internally trigger the corresponding API and that will communicate with the different restaurant.
So for example let's say you have a some food delivery app.
And this app is connected with what different restaurants and whatever food you have ordered in this
app.
And it will automatically check from where the food is exactly available, in which restaurant the food
is available, it will pick that food from that restaurant.
If possible, you can also choose a proper restaurant.
And who is doing this job?
This app is doing app in the sense it internally the API is doing that job.
So a simple example.
So APIs are defined some rules for how the communication should happen like what data can be said,
how to ask for it and what the response will look like.
So when you send some request you are expecting some response, right?
Whenever you browse something on the internet, you are expecting some response.
So accordingly you will send the request.
Whatever you ask, you will get a corresponding response.
But you are asking something, you are requesting something, but you are getting something else.
That means what?
That API is not properly working.
So whatever you are requested, you should get the proper response.
So that is the responsibility of the API.
So let us try to understand with more examples about API.
So let's take restaurant analogy.
If you go to some restaurant.
So normally how many things are there in the restaurant?
There are mainly three things.
Customer.
As a customer you went to restaurant and waiter and there is a chef.
Chef mostly working inside the kitchen.
Right.
And he will prepare the food.
Actually the chef is responsible for prepare the food.
Actually the food will be prepared in in the kitchen by chef.
These are three different layers we have.
If I look at this particular simple understanding as a customer, what you will do when you go to restaurant
and you will order the food, you will order the food.
What does it mean?
Basically you are sending some request and what waiter will do.
He will take your order and he will go to the chef and whatever order you have given, same order,
he will communicate with the chef and actual whatever order you have given.
The corresponding food will be prepared in the kitchen by chef, and then that will be served by the
waiter to the customer.
So what exactly is happening?
The waiter received the order from the customer and the chef is actually preparing the food again.
What waiter is doing not only taking the request after food is prepared, he is getting that food and
served to the customer.
So here waiter is actually doing the job of API.
His waiter is actually doing the job of API.
So what API will do?
Actually it will collect process a response and returns with the response.
So it will take the request and it will send the same request to the chef.
Here he will prepare the food and not only food preparation.
After food is prepared, he will provide the food to the customer as part of response.
So this is the best example to understand how exactly APIs will work.
Now you can consider the customer is a front end chef is a back end that is called data layer and the
waiter is an API.
A business logic sits between the customer and the chef.
Okay, so this is an example how exactly API works with the real time example we can understand.
Now let me show you another analogy.
Travel applications Makemytrip Agoda.com.
So there are so many travel related applications out there in the internet.
So all these like flight reservation or flight booking, hotel booking applications.
So all these applications will internally work with the APIs.
So for example let's understand this.
There are different airlines are available.
So for example let's say this is one type of failure.
And this is another type of airline these Indian airlines British airline.
They are different type of airlines.
They are having their own companies.
They are having their own websites.
Now look at this.
Makemytrip is a one application basically.
So you are trying to book a flight By using this application.
So you will provided some data like you provided some from to date everything to this.
So from the magpie trip what exactly this app will do.
Internally, the API will get this request from the customer and find out relevant flights from all
the airlines.
So what exactly this API will do here.
So whatever request you are send to this app.
Internally, the API will collect all the data from the different airlines and show to the user like
what are the flights are available or what are the different hotels are available and who is doing their
job.
API.
API will get the request from the customer and the processing at the server level, finding out or collecting
the data and showing to the customer.
So whatever the data the customer is sending, our API will find out or collect all the data from the
server.
and he is providing the same information.
He fetched the information from the different airlines, providing to the same to the customer.
So again, each and every application internally uses API only.
So how the APIs work, it is collecting the data from the different applications.
So these are different applications.
A different software or different computers and API will communicate with everything.
It will collect all the data and provide the data to the customer.
So this is how exactly APIs works in the real time environment.
I'll show you so many APIs we will see in the coming sessions.
I'll show you so many real time APIs.
So how exactly the API works?
We understood so the API, where exactly it sits API resides inside the middle layer and what is called
business logic also, which is also called as a business logic.
So this is a front end.
This is the back end in between the API layer will be there.
So what this API will layer will do.
This is also the responsibility of the API layer to take the data from the front end and insert into
the back end.
Sometimes we will create some data.
Sometimes we request some data from the database layer.
Sometimes we will update some data.
So we is doing all the job.
API is doing the job.
API is directly interacting with the database servers.
Our data will not directly go to the servers.
Similarly, whenever you retrieve some data that will not directly come to the database.
So internally the API will acting as a filter.
It will take our request process, the request in the database layer and corresponding the response
will be provided to the customer.
So this is also responsibility of the API layer to fetch the data from the back end and display on the
front end application.
So now based on this we have a front end application.
We have a API layer.
We have a back end layer.
So without API layer anything will happen.
Is there any usage.
There is no use only having data.
There is no use only having front end.
There is no use.
But if at least we have a back end and APIs are ready, can we do testing?
Even if you don't have a front end application, can we proceed with the testing?
Yes, we can directly test the APIs and once the front end or web is ready, then we can start focusing
on the web testing.
Okay.
So that's how the things will happen.
So that's the reason we will more focusing on the API testing why we need to focus more on the API testing.
Because to save the time, because we don't sit idle till we get the web.
Everything is front end, applications are ready.
The UI development will take some time.
So apart from these three more time will be taken by the UI because there are different designing will
be there and there is UX team will work designing and approvals.
There are a lot of time they will spend only on the designing part, so this takes some time.
But before designing it, apps are ready, so we'll directly start testing the apps and then front end
application is ready.
Then we will test the communication between front end apps properly communicating or not.
Okay.
So this is the basic understanding of what exactly API and how exactly it will work.
Now what are the different types of APIs are available in the market?
There are mainly four categories of APIs.
We can see in the market four categories.
Open APIs, which are also called as public APIs.
Internal APIs, which is also called as private APIs, partner APIs, and composite APIs.
We can categorize it into four different type of APIs.
Let us try to understand what exactly they are.
Open APIs.
Public APIs.
The name itself says public APIs means what anybody can access publicly available.
These APIs are for everyone to use.
You and me also can get those APIs access and we can use it.
They are called public APIs, so these are open for everyone to use.
Developers can access them without any restrictions, but there are minimal requirements will be there.
For example, let's say if you want to access, uh, Google Maps API, Google maps works based on the
Google Maps API.
If you want to access it, you need to have a Google account.
You need to have Google account, you need to create some token.
So there are some requirements should be matched.
We can do that actually without having any restrictions.
So public APIs are available for public to use on daily basis.
We can use we don't need any license.
We no need to pay anything so freely available to the public.
They are all called open APIs.
So in the coming sessions, mostly we focus on open APIs only because they are only APIs we can access
and we can test.
So I'll show you different type of APIs.
Okay, so Google Maps APIs are the examples for open APIs an internal APIs or private APIs are nothing
but what within the company or organization those APIs can be used.
We cannot access them.
So for example, there is a company in the air.
There is a air application.
And to work with the Air application internally the APIs will be there.
So those APIs will basically deal with the employees data or payroll processing of data.
So which is very very confidential or very sensitive data.
So such type of APIs we cannot access outside.
So they are all called private APIs, company specific APIs.
And they don't give those access on the APIs to the public, which are called private APIs or internal
APIs.
We cannot access them.
We cannot test them.
Partner APIs.
The third thing is partner APIs.
What are the partner APIs is nothing.
But for example, these APIs are shared with specific partners or business.
For example, there is a Google map API is there, and there are some travel applications.
For example, if you want to book a cab, you have something called Ola.
You have something called Uber, right?
These are all basically we can use to book our cabs, autos and everything, right?
But internally these Ola Uber is also having maps, right?
Internally they are using maps or not.
Initially they don't have any maps actually, but they are trying to use the map APIs from the Google
itself.
This is called partner APIs.
Means what?
The Google is giving permission to these guys to use the Google Maps in their applications, in their

own applications.
Ola is a different application.
Uber is a different application.
But here the Google is provided access to their application to use Google Maps.
So such type of APIs, we can call them as a partner APIs.
Partner APIs.
Okay.
For example, travel application, let's say flight Booking.com or Makemytrip.com.
So Makemytrip.com is a website.
And what exactly it is doing from the different airlines.
It is trying to fetch the all the flight details and provide to the customer.
And who is given permission to this Makemytrip.com these all airlines are provided permission to use
their data through the API, so they are also examples of partner APIs.
Suppose I have developed my API and someone is required that API in their organization.
Then I can grant some permission to them to use my API in their organization in their application.
So such type of APIs are basically called as what partner APIs.
And finally we have a composite APIs.
So open APIs Publicly available internal APIs or private APIs available only within the company.
We cannot access them.
Partner APIs we can access if you have a proper permissions from the parent company and composite APIs.
Composite APIs is nothing but what is a combined multiple APIs into one call, allowing you to get the
data from the different sources in the single request.
Different sources from the single request.
For example, let's say you have some e-commerce application in the e-commerce application, there are
different modules are there.
So for example, products information will be stored somewhere and the price is information.
Prices of the product will be stored somewhere.
Customer information will be somewhere.
Customer reviews will be stored in some other databases.
The different databases servers are there, different data will be stored in the different places.
But how can you get all the data from the different servers or different places.
So instead of having different APIs, one single API will get the data from the different servers or
different databases and collect the data and provide the same data to the user.
And such type of API is called composite APIs.
Basically, how the composite APIs work.
It will basically combine the.
Suppose if you want to get the data from this database, there is one API pricing API.
It will get only prices of the product, and there is another database which contains only product information.
So here there is another API which will get only product information.
There is another API which will get only product reviews information.
So instead of using multiple APIs to get multiple information, there is only one single API which will
combine all APIs.
And when you send one request internally, all the request will be fulfilled.
So such type of APIs are basically called as composite APIs.
Composite APIs.
Instead of sending multiple instead of invoking multiple APIs, we will have one single API.
We send the request to that, and that API will internally call combine multiple APIs.
So such type of APIs are called composite APIs.
So these are the four different types of APIs which are available in the market.
So open APIs publicly available internal APIs which are totally private APIs only within organizations
are available partner APIs we can access only with proper privileges or permissions.
Composite APIs basically combine multiple APIs and will get the data from the different sources.
So these are the four types of APIs available in the market.
Everybody is clear so far.
What is an API?
How many types of APIs are available in the market?
Public APIs.
Private APIs.
partner APIs or composite APIs.
Clear.
So what type of APIs we can access for our demo purposes?
Open APIs.
So whatever APIs are available publicly, we can access those type of APIs and we can work with them.
So in the coming forward.
So I'll show you so many types of real time APIs like suppose we have a Google itself is having so many
different type of APIs and GitHub is having their own APIs.
Okay, LinkedIn, Facebook and etc..
So these are all applications internally use a different type of APIs.
So we will able to access all those APIs.
They're all publicly available.
Just we need to create some apps and we need to create some tokens.
And we can easily access those APIs and we can test them.
So they're all comes under public APIs.
But private APIs, other APIs we cannot access publicly.
Okay.
So whatever APIs we are going to test and we are going to demonstrate all are comes under public APIs.
Most of them.
Okay.
All right.
So now let us understand API versus web service versus micro service.
These are the different terminologies are there in the market.
You you should have more clarity on this.
Anybody know what is the difference between API and web service API and web service.
What is an API?
What is web service?
First we will understand the difference between these two.
Then we will try to understand about micro service.
Anybody know what is the difference between API and web service?
API is hosted on internet is called a web service.
Yes.
So what is an API?
What is a web service?
What is a major difference between API and web service?
Very simple.
Suppose developer is implemented a simple business logic and API is there.
So if you test the API without internet.
But still we haven't pushed that API into the production.
It is not available in the production, it is not available in the internet.
It is available only in offline.
So if you do testing on that API, it is simple API, nothing else.
It's simply an API.
But if you place that API in the production, you call it as a web service.
Once it is available in the internet to everyone, which is called as a web service.
Okay, so all web services are APIs only.
Nothing else.
All web services are APIs, but every API is not a web service.
Right.
Every API is not a web service.
Why?
Because some APIs may put in the internet or may not put in the internet.
So whatever APIs are available in the internet, we call them as a web service.
They are available as a web service.
But whatever APIs are available in the offline, we are just APIs.
They are not web service, just you need to understand the basic difference between APIs and web service.
Now another thing will come into picture micro service.
Nowadays this is a term also becoming more popular buzzword in the market.
Micro service.
Anybody know what about.
What is micro service?
We know APIs.
We know web services.
What is micro services?
Micro services mainly relate to the development part.
Actually micro service I'll tell you the difference.
You can easily understand this.
So if you if you look at in internet, if you search in any you will be confused.
There are lot of definitions.
So many things unnecessarily will be confused.
Just understand this very very simple way.
What is API web service and micro service?
Okay, so what developer will do first?
For example, let's say developer implemented two different components which are related to same application.
Same application.
Okay.
Let's say there is a banking application.
There is a banking application.
So what are the common functionalities are available in the banking applications.
You can see your account balance and you can transfer the amount and you can generate the report.
So let's say there are different things you can do in your banking applications right.
So let us say the developer is developing this part a single functionality.
And this is another functionality.
This is another functionality.
This is one service.
This is another service.
This is another service.
Each and every component or function.
We call this a service a micro service.
Micro service is nothing but a small component in the application.
A small functionality in the application is called as a micro service.
Okay.
Now if you want to do transfer functionality, or if you want to transfer your money to somebody else.
That means what you are trying to invoke the one of the microservice.
And what is the dependency here?
Is there any dependency if you want to transfer the money to somebody else, what is the prerequisite?
The existing balance should be there.
So the balance part is taken care by another microservice.
Balance part is taken care by another microservice.
Is there any dependency or not?
Yes, there is a dependency.
Now, if you have a multiple web services, web service is nothing but what sorry, microservice.
It's not a web service, it's a microservice.
This is another micro.
Micro is nothing but a smallest component or smallest functionality in the application.
So in your application developer is implemented a small simple functionality which is called as a micro
services.
Now these microservices should be communicate with each other because there is a dependency, should
communicate each other how they will communicate each other, each and every microservice, how they
internally communicate.
Again, they required APIs.
So one microservice will communicate with another microservice again through API.
Okay.
So microservice is nothing but what a smallest piece of functionality implemented by the developer in
the application API is nothing but what again, API is acting as an interface communicating between
two microservices.
Okay, so if you want to communicate each and every microservice again API is in place and same API,
if you put in internet or production we call it as a web service.
So now you got the clarity between what is API, what is web service?
What is microservice?
Microservice development.
Microservice testing is purely related to the development part.
Purely developed.
Related to the development part and web services API testing APIs are developed by the developer, but
we need to focus more on testing.
We will always test the APIs and web services, but we don't directly test the web service.
Before that, we will test the APIs once we push into the production, and once it is available in the
internet, then we will test the Web service API only.
But we will test the API as a web service.
But microservices are totally different.
That's purely related to the development.
Even microservices testing is also a kind of a component testing or unit testing.
Okay.
Clear everyone.
So this is a major difference between APIs web service and microservice.
If anybody asks you during interview, you should not be confused.
Most of the people have clarity on difference between app and web service, but most people don't have
clarity on web service versus microservice.
People will confuse here.
What is web service?
What is microservice?
Microservice is a small component in your application, small piece of functionality in your application
and to communicate multiple microservices.
Again there is APIs required.
Okay.
So here I have given all the notes.
So what exactly API means, how exactly it will work.
And some examples have given and a way for different software systems or applications to communicate
with each other.
For that we use API.
Whenever I say API that will be used for what communication between two components or two services or
two systems is called API, and it defines some rules how we can how one can app how one app can request
data.
Mainly we will focus when I do API testing.
When I deal with the API, we will more focus on two things.
One is request what type of request we are sending, what type of data we are requesting, and what
kind of response we are expecting.
So we need to keep these two things in your mind when you're working with the APIs.
Example some phone we have some weather app.
So what exactly it will do.
That API will get the weather data from the weather server.
There is a server from that.
It will give the data to you.
Web service is nothing but what once you place the API in the internet, which is basically called as
a web service that you can access only through HTTP or Https protocol, that means only through internet
UI, we can access that web service, and it will basically exchange the data in the form of XML and
JSON.
We will discuss that later in detail, like payment gateways are example for web services.
So suppose you are doing some payment through internet online.
So what exactly how you are doing the payment actually.
So internally the payment gateways internally use some APIs.
You are doing some PayPal payment or razorpay payment or some other app you are using internally.
Corresponding APIs will do the job.
And those APIs are basically for what web services because they are available in the internet.
So all web services are APIs, but not all APIs are web services.
Okay, remember this point, all web services are APIs, but not all APIs are web services.
Once you place the APIs in the production or internet, they become the web services.
And microservices is what a small independent part of your application that does one thing means some
functionality will be there.
Okay.
And by combining multiple microservices they build a big application.
Okay.
Large application.
They will build by combining multiple microservices.
And these microservices also will communicate each other through APIs.
Okay.
So I have given some examples.
Here's for example an application shopping application online shopping application.
Separate microservices are available for logging product catalog payments or order tracking.
So again these features are dependent on each other.
So all microservices should combine to become a large application.
And those microservices will communicate each other through APIs.
So how exactly APIs will work.
We can also call as a Rest APIs.
We have two kinds of APIs Rest and Soap.
Soap APIs are very old.
One very less companies are using.
Nowadays 90% of the companies are using only Rest APIs.
So what is the major difference?
Soap APIs are basically used only XML format sending request response.
Everything in XML format, whereas in rest API we can use a different formats like it supports JSON
format, XML format, CSV format, text format, HTML format.
So different formats of data is allowed in Rest APIs.
In Soap APIs, that's not allowed.
And there are so many differences are there in the architecture level.
Even performance wise, Rest APIs are more faster than Soap APIs because XML is, uh, XML data.
Basically, the data which is representing in XML format is very, very uh, it is not lightweight actually.
So Rest APIs will specify data in the JSON HTML form.
This is very lightweight.
So whenever the data is lightweight the performance will be increased because in the transporting the
data it will go very faster.
So automatically the performance will be increased.
So Rest APIs are very faster than Soap APIs.
And in the Soap APIs is very, very limitations are there when you compare with the Rest APIs.
So 90% of the companies are using Rest APIs, which support a different formats of data.
And moreover they are faster when you compare with the performance.
So we are dealing with only Rest APIs.
So how exactly Rest API works based upon HTTP methods?
So as I said, first thing, what is the fundamental point of API?
How exactly API works?
What is required for API?
So I have some API.
I want to test this API.
So what are the things we need to.
We need to just ask something.
It will give something.
So whatever you're asking that is basically called as a request.
And whatever we are getting which is basically called as a response, there are only two things we need
to focus while doing API testing.
We do some request, we will get some response, but how many types of request we can send?
There are different type of request we can send.
we are called as HTTP request.
So normally any API if you want to test we will request something.
We are requesting something and that request will go in different type of requests which are called
HTTP request.
And these HTTP request there are different type of n number of requests are there.
Majorly we will talk about four types of request.
Get post put.
Sometimes we use patch sometimes delete.
So these are four and five types of request.
We will do patch and put is almost the same and get post put patch delete.
These are the main type of request we normally use in APIs.
Rest API get is nothing but what we are trying to retrieve some data from the server.
Get.
Get is nothing, but we are asking something.
Post is nothing but what we are sending, something, we are trying to create something in the server.
It is nothing but what we are trying to update something server.
There is some resource, some record is there.
We are trying to update that.
Put patch is nothing but what whatever existing record is there.
There is some issue we need to update it.
For that we use some patch.
Delete is nothing.
But what?
Whatever the data which is already exist in the server, we want to delete it.
So that's called delete request.
So it depends upon the type of request.
Corresponding APIs will be triggered and it will perform certain operation.
So basically we are call them as a third operation create update delete and retrieve same database whatever
operations we do.
Same operations we do as part of HTTP request.
Okay.
HTTP methods we call them as HTTP methods or HTTP request.
So whenever you are trying to work with the Rest APIs, we will focus more on request.
and we will validate the response.
So where do we do validations on request or response.
We don't need to do any validations on the request because we are sending the request.
But where exactly we do validations response that is very important.
So whatever we are sending, we are whatever we are requesting and we are getting proper response or
not.
So that area we need to focus more to perform the validations.
And again validations.
There are lot of things we need to validate, like status code, we will validate body.
We have to validate data time performance okay.
Lot of things are there.
We need to validate as part of the response.
So again that we will discuss in the later in the detail way.
So this is at very high level how exactly we have to test the APIs.
So API is request a request.
And that request we can send the different ways get post put patch delete.
And there are so many are there.
But majorly we use these type of HTTP request or HTTP methods.
Okay.
And finally.
So we have understood exactly what is a Rest API and what is request.
What is a response and how many types of HTTP methods are there.
Get post put patch is optional.
Put and patch is almost same.
Get post put and delete.
So these are the four major operations.
Most of the times we do.
So get is nothing but what receive the information about an API resource.
Yeah.
Now you need to understand some terminology.
Resource.
What is resource.
Any idea what is a resource?
Resource is nothing but what the terminology is important resource.
Let's say I have a database server.
I have some server.
I have a different data.
Is there m from the presentation layer.
I am trying to request something.
I want to get some for what I am requesting for.
I have some resource here that I want to access it.
So we are requesting for some resource.
So whatever is existing in the database layer, which is called as a resource resource is nothing but
what a functionality, a component or some data or some information is called as a resource.
In API testing terminology we call it as a resource.
Okay.
So when you say get, get is nothing but what we are trying to access some resource, we are trying
to retrieve some resource.
When you send a get request post is nothing but what we are trying to create.
Some new resource in the database server post means we are sending the resource that should be created
in the database.
Put update an existing resource.
The resource is already there in the database server.
We are trying to update it for that.
What type of request?
We have to send, put, request and delete.
The resource is already exist, but I want to delete it permanently.
Then I have to send delete request.
So most of the times we do these four type of request get, post put and delete get is nothing.
But the retrieving the resource post is nothing but a.
Creating the resource put is nothing but updating existing resource.
Deleting is nothing but what.
Deleting the resource from the server.
Okay, so throughout the rest API testing we will deal with these four type of methods.
We will focus more on Rest request.
And we will also focus more on response and different things we will validate as part of the response.
Now here you need to understand the major difference between HTTP and Https.
Anybody know what is the difference between HTTP and Https?
Hypertext Transfer Protocol and what is yes means security.
S means more secure.
So what is HTTP and Https?
Have you noticed these when you are browsing some websites?
Anytime.
So when you browse some websites, sometimes you will get HTTP with strike mark, red color strike mark
you will get some URL.
And when you say Https also, especially when you work with the banking application where accessing
most of the times you will see Https and sometimes only you see HTTP.
What does that mean?
So when you see HTTP on your URL that is not secured, actually your data is not secured.
But in some websites you can see Https.
That means what your data is more secure.
That means your data is encrypted.
The data transportation is happening in the encrypted format, but in HTTP the data is not encrypted.
That's not secure websites.
Okay, so most of the banking websites, if you have a sensitive data such type of websites mainly maintain
Https is a type of a protocol encryption and decryption type of techniques they internally use okay
http https because what why we need to know about the http https because when I send get request, post
put delete request.
These requests are especially related to HTTP request.
We call them as a HTTP request.
So what is the major difference?
If I look at this picture you will understand.
So if you just look at see only http, that means this password is not encrypted.
Suppose you are sending username and password in HTTP website that is not encrypted.
Your password is just going just like a plain text.
It is not encrypted, it is not secure.
But when you say Https, your password is encrypted.
Okay, so this is a major difference between HTTP websites https websites.
Secured.
And finally some terminologies we need to understand.
Suppose if you look at the URL you can see you are a URL.
You are in Uniform Resource identifier okay.
And a Uniform Resource locator uniform resource name.
You will see these type of names sometimes when you are working with the API testing.
So we will just try to understand.
It's very simple.
Suppose when you see this particular URL this is completely we can call it as a one URL or you are a
URL.
Sometime we can call it as a URL.
Or we can also call it as a URL.
Means what?
Uniform resource identifier.
Uniform resource locator identifier or locator.
Both are almost the same.
What does it mean?
meme HTTP is an old technology actually.
Okay, so when you compare with HTTP and Https before HTTP is coming to the market, there is HTTP.
So actually the HTTP websites are not secure in the market.
And if suppose some companies or some people still using these HTTP website, they are not secure.
They are very dangerous.
The data is not encrypted.
There is a chance of hacking the data.
So initially they were there in the market, but later on people are like once the internet came into
market, it becomes a popular.
Right?
So whenever the hackings are happening.
So then on top of HTTP, some other new protocol introduced Https.
So once they introduce Https, then Https is becoming very popular because this is more secure and even
the W3C standards is recommended to have HTTP websites and don't trust HTTP sites.
Trust only HTTP websites.
Okay, and whenever you see HTTP sites in the network, don't provide your personal data or sensitive
data.
There is a chance of hacking the data because the data is not encrypted format.
But when you see https in the URL so happily, you can provide your sensitive data.
Also, because they can encrypt your data, they are more secure.
Okay, so if I look at this URL, there are multiple parts are there.
So let us try to understand what are the main parts in the URL.
So the whole thing is called URL from here to here you can call it as a URL Uniform Resource Identifier
or Uniform Resource locator okay.
What are the different parts are there.
This part you can see right.
So the.com you can see.edu dot in.
Sometimes you can see the country part dot a you.us.
This is called as a domain.
This is called as a domain.
Okay.
And this part is called as a hosting set.
This is called as a hosting hosting server.
Actually this is IP address because if you provide the IP address it is very difficult to remember.
Right.
So we will provide some hosting server.
This will connect to the host and the domain.
And this part is called as a resource.
Actually this is also called as a path.
First this part will go to the server.
In the server it will go to articles folder.
Inside the folders you can see article name.
This is actual file resource we are trying to get.
So if you want to get this particular file you need to provide the entire stuff.
So there are multiple paths are there in this whole thing.
So the whole thing is called Uniform Resource Identifier or Uniform Resource Locator.
And this part is called as a path.
And whatever the exact That resource we are trying to retrieve from the database, which is called as
a u r n resource name.
This is the actual resource we are expecting from the server and where this resource is present inside
the articles folder.
So articles dot article name.
This whole thing is called a path.
And where this is exist in the hosting server.
This is all part is comes under the hosting server.
Okay.
And this part is HTTP.
Https is also called as a schema schema.
Okay.
And protocol schema or protocol.
So these are the different parts which we can see in the the whole URL path and resources are same path
are resource is not the same actually.
Why.
Because the resource is present inside the path.
So for example let's say in your local system you have a C drive.
Inside the C drive you have a folder with your name.
Inside this, you have actual file.
Now, if you want to get this file, you have to navigate this path.
Right.
And what is an actual resource here.
What is an actual resource here?
The file is actual resource that we are looking for.
But where this file is exist inside this path.
So this is called as a path.
This is called as a resource.
Similarly here this is actually resource.
This is a part of this path.
If you want to access this resource you need to go to this path.
We call this whole thing is a path.
Inside the path the resource is present.
Similarly inside this path this resource is present.
And the whole path is present inside the host server host okay.
And the scheme host domain path resource everything Combinedly.
We can call it as URI or Uniform Resource locator okay.
This is a terminology which we need to understand and feature and resource we have already understood
what is the resource means, what whatever is existing in the server, which is called as a resource,
also called as a feature.
Okay.
Now finally payload.
What is payload request.
Payload response.
Payload.
Payload is nothing.
But what request payload and response payload.
So whenever you send some request to the API.
So let's say I have an API here, I have my server and here is my client.
So you are sending some request to the API and you are getting some response here.
The request here you have a response.
So whenever you are sending the request to the API you will also pass some additional data.
For example what suppose if you want to send this request, sometimes username and password is required.
Sometimes the token is required.
Sometimes some data we have to pass.
So for example if you want to create a new employee data in the database server there is some API.
So you need to pass the employee details right.
Employee name employee ID number, salary.
You have to pass the data.
So whatever data you are passing along with the request which is called as request payload, okay,
request payload and whatever data we are getting as part of the response, which is called as a response
payload response payload means what the data we are getting along with the response.
Suppose your banking application, you are sending some of your account number and it will give you
all the data, account holder, name, balance, transactions, everything that is called as response
payload and what are account number you are giving like your identity you are giving right?
That is request payload.
So whatever data you are passing along with the request, which is called a request payload, whatever
data you are getting from the response, which is called as a response payload.
Simple understanding because these are all important the coming sessions.
Once you start testing the APIs, these terminologies you need to remember.
All right so status code what is HTTP status codes.
So understood what is HTTP request.
Can anybody tell you what are the HTTP requests.
How many are there.
What are the API http request?
We have understood mainly for get post put deleted along with the patch.
So these are mainly four type of HTTP request.
Similarly, whenever you say send request will get a response.
So similarly for every response is associated with some status code.
Every response is associated with some status code.
That is also one of the key thing which we need to validate as part of the resource, as part of the
response.
So when you request something, you are getting some response.
What are the things we need to validate as part of the response?
There are a lot of things we need to validate the response body.
We need to validate the response code that is called status code.
We need to validate how much time it is taking.
We need to validate headers.
We need to validate cookies and a lot more other things we need to validate as part of the response,
not only the data.
So HTTP status code is basically referring the status code which is part of your response.
Sometimes you will get 200 status codes.
Sometimes you will get 201.
Sometimes you will get 500 501.
These are all called status codes.
These are all called status codes okay.
And mainly status codes will be five different series one.
Series two.
Series three.
Series four and five.
Series okay.
And whenever you send some request to the server, most of the times if your request is successful,
you will get the status code in the two series.
And if suppose there are some errors, your request is not properly processed by the server.
Mostly you will get four series or five series series.
Only three characters will be there, or three numbers will be the three digits, and it will start
with one, either 2 or 3, 4 or 5.
Okay, so when you will get the one series, the server has received your request and is currently processing
it.
Your request is still not completed in the server, but you will get some status code.
One series that means your request is still processing on the server, and two series you will get.
That means what the server is processing your request and successfully receiving the received and understood
by the server.
In that case, you will get a two series and server has received the request, but it is being redirect
to another location.
Suppose you are asking for some resource from the server, and it is not able to found the resource
in the server.
Now it is trying to relocate the resource in some other server.
In that case you will get a three series and server is unable to locate your resource.
For example, that resource is itself is not exist.
Then you will get a four series.
And suppose there is a connection error between your client and servers.
Server is not properly responding.
Sometimes your API is not able to send the request properly to the server, and when a server response
is sending, there is some disconnection issues.
In that case you will get A55 series.
So these are the five different series of codes are available which are also called HTTP status codes.
We are also going to validate them as part of your response.
So I have given the detailed list of all the codes one.
Series two.
Series three.
Series and everything.
You can just remember few of the things, especially two series and all are green which are successful
request and five series.
Just remember some of the five series and and four series.
Also, sometimes you may see these kind of status code in even browser.
Also bad request.
Unauthorized.
Forbidden.
Not found.
Have you seen these type of messages in your browser?
Sometimes.
Yes.
So basically that code is representing something from the server HTTP request code response code.
We call it as a response code.
So when you validating the http API responses we need to also make sure should validate all the status
code.
Every response is associated with the status code.
That status code is basically describes whether your request is successful or not, or your request
is not successful, or your request is redirected, or your request is still processing how, we will
know that based upon the HTTP status code, we will aware of that.
So we should also validate these things as part of your response of the APIs.
Okay.
And finally this is a actual workflow of any Rest API.
If I look at the picture you can simply understand consumer and producer who is consumer, whoever is
accessing the API, trying to use that API.
They are all consumers.
Client consumers are nothing but a client.
And who is the producer?
The server is basically called as a producer, S1 and S2.
So when you send a HTTP request, you have to pass URI or URL headers, some payload we have to pass.
This is all data we are passing along with the request.
Now the server will receive the request.
Connect to the database and type depends on the HTTP type of request.
It can perform post action or get action or put or delete whatever request it will perform here, it
will get back the response and the same response will be provided to the consumer again.
At the time of giving the response, the status code will be their response payload will be there and
whether it's successful or not, the confirmation message is also part of the response.
Okay, we already understood what is payload.
So payload is nothing.
But the data which we are passing along with the request is called request payload.
The data which we are getting along with the response is called response payload.
And the status code is one of the key point in the response which we need to validate along with the
response payload message.
And there are many more things we need to validate.
This is the whole workflow.
So these are all called Crud operations in the database language.
Even in the database also we do the same operations.
We will create some tables or create some data.
We will retrieve some data.
We will update existing data.
We will delete the data.
So we call it as a Crud operations in database language, but in API testing we call this a post get
put delete.
Create is exactly same as a post.
Post is nothing but what we are creating.
Something new resource get is nothing, but you are retrieving the existing resource.
Put is nothing but you are updating the existing resource.
A delete is nothing but we are deleting the existing resource.
So whatever operations we do in the database, exactly the same type of operations we do through APIs.
Okay, so this is all about the basic understanding of what exactly APIs and what are the different
types of APIs, how exactly APIs work.
What is request?
What is response?
Okay.
You need to have more clarity on this.
And then we can start testing the APIs.
All right.
So this is all about introduction part today.
And then we will continue in the next class or next session.
Okay.
Yes.