All right.
So from today we are going to see how we can interact with the different type of elements.
Like we will see checkboxes or radio buttons or drop downs, alert windows frames for different type
of web elements we can find on the web pages.
So we'll see how we can interact with them and different type of actions we can perform on those elements.
So first let us start with how to handle the checkboxes.
So listen carefully.
Most important topic.
So how to handle checkboxes?
Most of the times when you see the checkbox.
So what is a basic operation we can do is selecting or unselecting.
Right.
Let's say have a multiple checkboxes.
We can select multiple checkboxes also.
So what is the difference between radio buttons and checkboxes is in the radio buttons group we can
select only one radio button at a time, whereas in checkboxes in the group we can select multiple checkboxes.
So most of the times we can do only two actions.
One is selecting the checkbox or checking the checkbox, or unchecking or unselecting the checkbox.
But apart from this, we can also do some more actions.
So we'll see what are those actions.
So how to handle the checkboxes.
So let me show you uh a sample checkbox option in the web page.
Right.
So let's go to the page.
All right.
So here I have few checkboxes.
Let's say Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday and Saturday.
So there are some weeks uh multiple check boxes are there.
And uh, we can select check boxes like this.
We can select one check box or we can select multiple check boxes.
So whichever check box you want you can select from this check box list okay.
So we'll see.
Uh what are the actions we can perform on these check boxes one by one.
And let's go to eclipse.
And I create a new package for today.
The 29.
Okay.
New class, I'll say handle.
Checkboxes.
Okay, so first thing, uh, before handling the checkbox, let us create WebDriver instance driver
equal to new.
Go, driver.
And then we launch application.
I say driver dot.
Get.
Okay.
And this is a.
URL of the application.
Just a second.
Right.
And then I'll try to maximize driver dot manage dot.
Window dot maximize.
So this will maximize the page.
And also I'll try to put implicit weight say driver dot.
Manage dot.
Timeouts.
Dot implicitly.
Wait.
Duration dot of seconds is a 10s max.
Okay.
So now let's see how to handle the checkbox.
So the first operation is how to select the checkbox.
Select or check checkbox.
How to select a checkbox.
So by default the checkbox is empty.
So we can select the checkbox.
So how we can select the checkbox.
Simply we need to locate an element.
Let's say I want to select some checkbox like this.
So we need to inspect this element.
Let's say I want to select Sunday if I inspect that element.
Okay, I'll put this in the bottom of the page.
Okay.
So if I look at this XPath this is the XPath which is given.
Input is a tag of that element.
So this is the element, actual input is a tag and id is available directly.
So it is taken ID as a locator.
And there are other locators also there.
If you want to take value you can also take but the type you cannot take because there are other check
boxes which are also having same type called checkbox.
So we need to take the unique property of the element.
So this is the XPath which is locating that element.
And use this locator selector dot.
Driver dot.
Find element by dot x path.
And dot, we use a click.
So for button link checkbox and radio button.
So these four elements are having same method which is called click.
So if you want to select the checkbox we need to say click even for Unselecting.
Also we need to perform the click.
Suppose the checkbox is already selected like this.
Now I want to unselect this same thing again.
Locate the element and then click on it.
This will unselect.
So the same method we use for selecting and Unselecting.
So this will select the checkbox.
Let's execute and see.
And also last class.
I have told you one more method.
Suppose if the checkbox is enabled or not.
Or if the checkbox is selected or not.
How we can check.
What is the method we have?
Conditional method.
Is selected.
Okay.
So that is a method we can use.
So now we can see Sunday is got selected.
So we can also apply the conditional method.
So before selecting we can apply some conditional method.
For example let's say it's a same element.
And, uh, before clicking, I can say.
Dot or first let us get that into a web element variable because I want to perform multiple operations.
Web element checkbox.
And this web element.
Import.
Now I want to perform multiple operations on this.
The first operation is what I want to first select.
Is it enabled or not?
Check box dot is selected.
Dot is a selector, so this is selected or not I want to check and then I can print here.
Or I can put one condition.
Let's say if it is unselected.
If it is selected, I don't select.
If it is not selected, then only cancel it.
You can also put the condition if you want.
I can say system dot.
Out dot println and then say.
Checkbox.
He selected.
And this will print yes or no or Boolean value.
True or false.
Okay.
And then I can click on this select box.
And after clicking again I'm just going to print checkbox is selected.
I can print.
So this is before selection.
So before selection.
And this is after selection.
After selection.
Okay, so now let's see how it is going to work.
So before selection I'm just printing the status.
And after selection means it will select the checkbox.
And after selection again I'm printing the status one more time.
So initially these are not selected.
So it is giving false.
And once it's selected then it will give the true.
Okay.
Now it is selected as a Sunday.
Yeah.
Now initially it is false.
Next it is becomes true.
So this particular command will able to select checkbox.
Okay.
This is the first example.
So how to select the specific checkbox single checkbox.
Now my second operation is.
I want to find.
How many checkboxes are there?
Okay.
So let's say how multiple checkboxes are there in my page, especially in that particular section.
So I want to check how many check boxes are here.
So Sunday, Monday Tuesday three four, seven check boxes are there.
I want to count how many check boxes are here.
So how we can do it?
We need to write an XPath which is pointing to all the checkboxes elements, right?
We need to write one common XPath, or we need to write a common locator which is locating all these
checkboxes okay.
So now we'll see how we can do it.
So we need to write one common XPath for that.
If I look at this one of the checkbox.
And first checkbox I have located.
Now you can see class item is their form, check input and ID type is there and let us take another
checkbox.
And this is also having form check input.
Same type of a class ID is got changed and type is again same.
And let us check another check box.
And this is also having same form check input.
But IDs got changed and type is same.
If I look at multiple checkboxes, attributes, class and type.
So these two are similar right?
It is same.
So by taking these two properties we can create our own XPath which will able to locate all the checkboxes.
Let us first use only class item and we'll see.
So I say input at the rate class.
At the rate class equal to and class is form hyphen check.
Hyphen input.
Okay, now I have used only class, so nine elements are matching.
See.
Is this correct?
Locator nine elements are matching, but it is also locating check boxes if you can see here.
Apart from this seven these two are also counting.
So only class is not enough.
Only one attribute is not enough to locate all the check boxes.
It is also locating other elements in the same page.
Right?
So now we need to add one more attribute to filter it.
So if you look at here there is another type type attribute is there.
So check box for the radio button.
The type will be different and check box type will be different.
So let us take type also.
So how we can specify another attribute here by using end operator okay.
And at the rate type equal to.
Checkbox.
Okay, now I have applied one more filter.
Now exactly.
It is pointing seven elements.
So this is sometimes we can create our own XPath.
So these type of XPath selector hub cannot generate.
So we can create our own XPath depends on our requirement.
So now I'm going to use this XPath which is exactly pointing seven checkboxes or seven web elements.
Now.
Capturing all the checkboxes.
Okay.
Now, because we are finding the multiple web elements, multiple checkboxes, we have to use something
called find elements.
Find elements.
And here I say by dot XPath.
And this is the XPath.
And, uh, I want to capture them into variable.
I don't want to perform direct action, so I want to capture all the checkboxes in a variable.
So I'm going to create some variable here.
Checkboxes equal to.
Now the type of this variable is what?
List of list of what web element.
Right.
So we are getting the multiple web elements into a single variable.
Now the variable type is what a list of web element.
Right.
So once you get all the elements into this particular list collection can we find how many are there?
Yes.
So to find it, what we can do.
We can simply say System.out.println.
All right.
So here I can say number of.
Checkboxes.
Simply insert checkboxes.
Dot size, so this will give you exactly how many checkboxes are there.
So first we have collected all the checkboxes into variable.
And then we printed how many checkboxes are there in this particular group.
So this is one more requirement.
So capturing all the check boxes and finding the size.
Yeah, totally.
Seven checkboxes are there.
Expert we have created, we haven't get it, okay.
We have created our own expert.
First.
I have used only class attribute, but because of only you class attribute, it is also matching some
other elements other than this checkboxes.
It is also matching some other elements called check radio buttons.
So after that what I have done, I have taken another attribute which is also commonly there for every
checkbox which is type attribute.
Okay.
So then I have applied another attribute called type by using end operator.
So this XPath is exactly pointing same seven checkboxes here.
But if I don't use this type attribute initially I have taken only one attribute called class because
the class attribute is exactly same for other elements.
So when I use only class attribute nine, elements are matching only.
Apart from the checkboxes, it is also matching to radio buttons.
But I don't need these two radio buttons now I need exactly these seven elements checkboxes and that
is the reason I have added one more attribute which is called type attribute okay and the type equal
to checkbox.
So then what happens is it is finding the class attribute.
And type attribute both.
So by using this XPath I'm able to find exactly seven elements.
So like this we can also use multiple attributes.
I already told you in the last class how to use multiple attributes in the XPath using end operator.
Okay, so you can just look at this.
Everybody understood about XPath.
Expert.
Okay.
It is not that much complex.
First, I have used only one attribute, which is commonly most of the times we use class, right?
To identify the elements multiple elements class we will use.
So I have used class, but by using class it is also identifying other locators other elements.
So just for filtering purpose I have added one more attribute which is also commonly there for checkboxes.
Okay, so that's the reason I have captured.
Multiple checkboxes using this XPath.
How to create an XPath, not checkbox in somewhere else.
Also are not clear with soccer.
What is your question?
So see whatever checkboxes you have.
You can you can select a specific checkboxes or you can select all the checkboxes.
Depends upon your requirement.
Everything is depends on the XPath.
So by writing an XPath you can select all checkboxes or specific checkboxes.
So whatever you want.
So here we already shown you how to select a specific checkbox.
So we have written one XPath for that earlier.
So this XPath I have written this is for specific checkbox.
And in this it is used only ID property which is unique for uh this is a different uh attribute we have
for multiple web elements.
But here I have used one common XPath which is pointing multiple checkboxes.
This is not a new thing.
Actually, I don't know why you have not understood.
This is not a new thing.
We already seen this multiple times.
How to write XPath by taking help of multiple attributes.
Where I'm getting the warning.
This is the one.
So this is related to WebDriver version.
It is just a warning.
It is not an error.
You can ignore it.
Okay.
Sometimes if the browser version or even the WebDriver version is not much compatible, so you will
see this kind of a warnings.
It is just a warning.
It will not stop your execution or.
How to create XPath in the name box.
Where is the name box?
Please ask the relevant questions.
Guys, I don't know.
What you are talking about.
See.
Let me cover all the scenarios, then ask the questions.
Okay, we are something middle of something, so it's still not finished with this topic.
So I want to show you multiple things actually on the checkbox itself.
So let me finish all the scenarios on checkboxes.
Then if anything is left then ask the questions okay.
All right.
So first thing uh, I have captured all the checkboxes.
And if I use only class attribute.
I'm not exactly getting the seven elements because I want to get only these seven elements.
So when I use class attribute, I'm also getting other elements, so that's the reason to filter it.
I have already used some other attribute.
So this is exactly filter those elements.
And exactly I am getting seven elements.
So this XPath I have used and getting all the checkboxes and then finding the size.
So this is exactly given seven elements okay.
This is one requirement.
Now suppose I want to select all the checkboxes.
Let's say Sunday Monday, Tuesday every checkbox I want to select like this.
How we can do it.
Suppose we want to go with the first approach.
Let's say if I use this particular approach there are multiple statements.
I have root right.
So I have to write XPath for each and every checkbox.
And let's say seven checkboxes are there and seven statements I have to write to select each and every
checkbox.
Suppose if you have a ten checkboxes or if you have a 20 checkboxes.
So it is difficult to write multiple statements, right?
So instead of writing multiple statements you can simply write a one looping statement.
So my requirement is I want to select all the checkboxes in this group.
So that is the next requirement.
Selecting all the.
Checkboxes.
Selecting all the checkboxes.
How we can do it.
So we already captured all the checkboxes here.
Now we need to get each and every individual checkbox.
And then we perform the click action.
So this we can do by using normal for loop and by using enhanced for loop.
Anything is fine.
So let me show you in the normal for loop first.
So in the checkboxes we have to keep reading each and every checkbox.
Because this is a list a collection index will work.
So I'm using normal for loop.
And index will always start from zero.
So I'm taking int I equal to zero.
And then I less than.
Okay.
Now how we can find number of checkboxes.
This will give you number of checkboxes size.
Right.
So I less than why I'm using less than here because index will start from zero.
We should show only less than we should not use less than or equal to.
And then I mean incrementing index value I plus plus.
Now by using this index number I want to capture each and every individual checkbox one by one.
How to get it.
So from the checkboxes dot get is a method right.
And I say get off.
One first checkbox will be returned.
When I say two, second checkbox will be returned.
When I say three, third checkbox will be returned.
When I say zero zero checkbox will be returned.
So I is representing the index.
So I'm passing I here.
So this will return the checkbox.
Now what is the action we want to perform?
We want to click on the check box so I can say dot click.
That's it.
So now we are extracting the checkbox by using get method by passing index number.
And once you get the checkbox and we are performing the click action.
So first time it will return the first checkbox.
Second round.
Second checkbox.
Third round.
Third checkbox fourth round fourth checkbox.
Like this.
It will repeat seven times.
Okay, so we are extracting the checkbox and then we are clicking on the checkbox.
So this will select all the checkboxes.
Now I comment this one for now.
All right, now execute and see.
So by using normal for loop, we can repeat all the checkboxes and we can select all of them.
Yes.
Now we can see all the checkbox have been selected.
So this is a one way.
Can we put click on top of line number 29?
Yeah, you can do it.
Because he already clicked, right?
If I already selected here.
But in this it will unselect.
So that is the problem.
That's the reason I'm commented.
So if I click here means it is already selected, right?
But when you're reading when you're trying to click on Sunday here it will unselect.
So that's the problem.
That's the reason I commented this.
And line number 29 here we collected all the checkboxes.
So on this we cannot perform click action okay.
No this is a list collection which is a list collection.
There are multiple checkboxes are there.
We cannot click all checkboxes at once.
We cannot do like that.
We need to extract one by one each and every checkbox.
And then we perform the click action.
So we cannot perform click action on all the checkboxes at once.
No it is not possible.
Okay.
No gettext won't work here.
getText is again different.
We need to extract the checkbox.
Okay.
Text is another element.
There's a label basically okay.
This is a label element on the label.
You cannot perform any action only on the checkbox you can perform.
We can select or unselect, but on the label you cannot because both are two different elements.
If I look at here.
They let me inspect this checkbox.
For example, I'm inspecting the checkbox called input here.
This is input element and below this label element.
So label is what Saturday.
So on this label you cannot perform anything.
You can get the text value.
But based on the text you cannot do anything because we want to perform on the checkbox input element
not on the label okay.
If you want to capture the text value, then you can use XPath for label element.
You need to write XPath for this element label if you want to capture the text, but if you want to
perform the action, you need to take the input element, not the label element.
Say this is very basic question, guys.
I don't know why you have not understood.
See, I told you many times in arrays concept we discussed in the list collection we discussed.
When I start index from zero, we should not say less than or equal to.
We should say less than.
If I start index from one, then you should say less.
Less than or equal to because as per the index, index is always start from zero.
You should say only less than if you still want to use less than or equal to, then you should say minus
one.
Here I have repeated this many times.
I think you forgot it.
Yes or no.
So if we want to use less than or equal to because we need to say minus one here.
Do you want me explain this one more time?
This is very basic question I repeated many times.
Say get is a method which will take the element.
So why get off I place of checkbox does checkbox dot click.
We cannot directly do because let me tell you see this is our collection list collection okay.
In the list collection what it contains as of now.
So here we have taken all the checkboxes as a web elements and put in the list collection.
So this is our list collection.
In the list this is one checkbox.
This is another checkbox.
This is another checkbox.
This is another checkbox okay.
So this is a web element.
It is not a string or it is not a primitive data.
This is a web element.
Web element.
It is a kind of an object.
So we can extract that element first.
And once they extracted that element, then we need to apply the click method.
So how to extract this first element.
This a zero element.
First element.
Second third element.
So how to extract this zero element from the list.
What is the method we have to use.
How to extract it.
Get a method right.
So by using get only we can extract.
So by using get off and passing zero as an index.
And this will return the first checkbox.
Once it is returned here then I'm applying the click method.
Okay, so this will return.
The Web element checkbox is a web element dot.
Click in the next round.
The second checkbox will be returned.
Get off one and then I'm applying the click method.
Next round another checkbox will be returned from the list collection.
Then I'm pressing the click so you cannot directly click on the checkbox.
Okay, first we need to get the checkbox from the collection and then we perform the click action.
So that's the reason from all the checkboxes I'm getting one checkbox and then performing the click
action.
So this is the complete statement.
Again I'm repeating.
So here I'm checkboxes means what checkboxes is contains multiple checkboxes.
This is the variable here.
So this contains all the checkboxes from all the checkboxes.
I'm picking one checkbox and then performing the click action.
Three things are included in this.
Everybody's understood this statement.
It is not much complex, actually.
It's very simple.
So did I explain anything about enhanced for loops?
Now that's the next thing.
Why you are asking now just what am I am explaining?
Just stick to that.
Don't go beyond that.
Enhance it for loop.
Yes, we can use it.
There's the next thing I'm going to tell you.
So first let me know whether this is understand or not.
Don't go beyond this.
Everybody's understood this statement or not.
So we cannot directly perform click action on the checkboxes.
We need to extract each and every checkbox one by one.
And then only we have to perform the click action.
This is a sequential actions we need to perform.
This is very simple, very basic logic.
If you are not understood only this much, you cannot understand the other things.
Very, very complex things we are going to discuss.
This is very basic stuff actually.
Okay.
So everybody's understood this.
So we have collected all the checkbox into one variable.
And then we are extracting one by one.
And then we are performing the click action.
That's it.
Rashmi, what is the use of get method in the collection?
Have you listened the session?
Ivan Alexander.
Collections.
Class in the Java.
Yes.
And then you should know this.
What is a Get method?
What is the use of get method in the list?
What is the use of get method?
Can anyone tell me the answer?
What is the use of get method?
In the list collection.
You have not listened session properly.
That's why you are not understanding this.
I cannot do if you're not listening the session.
Please go through the previous sessions.
You will understand this.
What is the use of Get method?
I have written many times not only 1 or 2 times.
Almost in every session we are using these options.
What is the use of get method in the list collection?
It will return the item from the list.
Just now I have explained just now, just one minute back.
So what is the use of get method in the collection?
In the list collection?
There are multiple items.
Are there?
If you extract one by one each and every item, we use a Get method.
Bypassing index number.
Index is 0123.
So by passing index number in the get method, this will extract the element from the list collection.
Once you extracted, then I apply the click method.
What is there in this?
What is the complexity in this?
I don't know whether you are understood or not.
Please go through the previous session collection's concept.
You will understand this.
Okay.
Now let us move on to the next one.
So this is a full loop through which we can extract each and every individual element from the collection.
Then we perform the click action.
This is one way we can do it.
By using enhanced for loop.
Also, we can do it by using enhanced for loop.
You don't need to do any indexing concept without using index.
We can do it.
So let me show you using enhanced for loop.
Okay, so here we are getting each and every checkbox into a variable.
I'm taking checkboxes colon and checkbox.
I'm taking one variable called checkbox.
Now tell me from the checkboxes.
I'm returning each and every checkbox into a variable.
I'm just going to store each and every checkbox one by one into this variable.
Now what is the type of this variable?
If this collection contains a strings, this variable should be string type.
If this collection contains a numbers, this variable should be integer.
If this collection contains a different data types and this variable should be object.
Now this collection contains the checkboxes.
All are web elements.
Now what is the type of this variable?
This variable should be web element.
Okay.
Now by taking this checkbox web element, I can directly perform the click action.
Very simple.
It is more simpler than normal follow because here we don't have any index.
So how it is going to execute.
Now?
Don't ask about enhanced for loop again, because enhanced for loop.
We have seen multiple times how it is going to work.
So in the check boxes let's say I have seven check boxes.
The first check box will go here.
And now we are clicking here.
Second round.
Second check box will assign to this variable.
Now again it will click third check box.
Fourth check box fifth sixth seventh.
So in every iteration, one by one each check box will be stored into this variable.
So that's the reason this variable should be web element.
Check box is nothing but a web element.
So this variable should be web element.
And then we are performing the click action.
Okay, this is more simpler than the first one.
Now let us execute and see.
So by using enhanced for loop we can also select all the checkboxes.
Yes.
Now it is selected all the checkboxes.
So in every iteration it will take one checkbox into this variable.
Then we are clicking the checkbox.
So this is more simpler than this one okay.
Now.
So we have selected all the checkboxes.
This is one requirement.
Now.
Another requirement.
So in interview some people will ask you like this.
Let us say I have multiple checkboxes.
Let's say I have multiple checkboxes here.
Seven checkboxes are there.
Now I want to select last three checkboxes or I want to select last two checkboxes.
How it is possible.
Okay, let's say I have ten checkbox.
I will tell you the simple logic.
Just remember interior perspective.
It is very very important.
Let us say multiple checkboxes here.
12345, six, seven, eight nine and ten checkboxes are there.
Ten checkboxes are there.
Now I want to select from the end I want to select first last two or last three or last four or last
five checkboxes from the end.
How we can select them.
This is my question.
How we can select them.
The.
How to select the last few checkboxes.
So in this we can apply one logic.
I'll tell you what is that logic.
It is very simple to do it.
It's very very simple.
Let us say 1234567 checkboxes are there.
Okay.
Indexes start from one okay.
So to select the last three checkboxes what you can do is first of all uh we need to count total number
of checkboxes.
So total number of checkboxes.
How many are there.
Seven checkboxes are there.
Okay and how many checkboxes I want to select from the end.
Three checkboxes I want to select as a minus three.
So seven minus three is what.
Four.
Okay, now we need to start for loop.
From the four itself.
Four is what?
One, two?
Three zero?
In other words, we need to count 012, three, four four is here.
This is the starting index.
Starting index is what four.
Now from here, this one, this one and this one.
These three we will collect.
Okay, let me repeat once again.
Listen carefully.
And this time let's say for checkboxes, I want to select, let's say from the last, let's say I have
1234567.
So now I want to select a last four checkboxes.
From the end I want select last four checkboxes.
Now what is the first thing expression.
What is the formula.
Total number of checkboxes minus last four checkboxes I want to select four minus four seven minus four
is what three.
So three is a starting index.
We need to take three as a starting index means this is 0123.
So here from here we need to start reading the checkboxes.
So this is the formula okay.
This is the formula.
So by using this formula we can select some number of checkboxes from the end.
Now remember this very easy.
And I can say.
The next requirement.
How to select.
Fourth one.
Select last three checkboxes.
Last three checkboxes.
So what is a formula is total number of checkboxes.
Total number of.
Checkboxes minus.
How many checkboxes you want to select.
How many checkboxes do you want to select equal to what you will get?
Starting index.
Starting index value you will get.
So this is the formula you want to apply okay.
Now.
So total number of checkboxes.
How many checkboxes are there.
How we will know that.
Checkboxes dot size.
So we already counted here.
So this will give you total number of checkboxes minus how many checkboxes you want to select.
Three checkboxes equal to starting index.
So now I'm writing the for loop observe carefully.
So int I starting point is what how we will get the starting point according to the formula.
So total number of checkboxes are seven minus how many checkboxes I want to select.
Three equal to four is a starting index four is a starting index.
Now I should be four.
Starting index is four right I should be four.
How we will get it.
You can directly specify four.
Okay.
And I less than.
How many times we have to repeat depends upon the total number of checkboxes.
Right.
So I can just specify it.
Total number of checkboxes.
Dot size and how many times we can increment I plus plus.
So this is how we can get I equal to four I less than or equal checkboxes dot size I plus plus.
So now same thing from the checkboxes.
From the checkboxes.
Extract the checkbox by using get method by passing index dot click so this will perform the action.
Very simple.
Okay.
So if you know the starting index that's it.
So how we will get the starting index, total number of checkboxes, minus how many checkboxes you want
to select from the end.
That will give you starting index and from where you can start.
Let's run it.
So this will select last three checkboxes from the list.
Okay, now you can see last three checkboxes Thursday, Friday and Saturday is got selected.
Now suppose I want to select the first three checkboxes.
I want to select the first three checkboxes.
Next one.
Select.
Slash the three checkboxes.
Yes.
So enhanced for loop is not possible here.
Okay, so if you want to achieve this requirement, enhanced for loop is not possible because we are
selecting specific checkboxes, right.
In that case enhancer for loop will not work.
Enhanced for loop is applicable only if you want to work with all the elements.
Not specific elements.
Okay.
So in this case enhanced for loop is not supported.
Now select the first three checkboxes.
How we can select the first three checkboxes.
There is no formula is the direct approach.
So first three checkboxes means what index is starting from what zero?
First three means.
What is the condition I less than.
I less than.
012.
Write three checkboxes.
Then I plus, plus.
We want to select first three checkboxes.
What is the condition I starting from zero.
So zero element I want first element and also second element.
Also I need so I less than or equal to zero two.
We need to specify or I can say three.
So first three elements means zero element, first element, second element altogether three element.
Because index start from zero.
So both are correct.
And then.
Uh, I can get from the checkboxes.
From the checkboxes I can get first checkbox and then I'm going to click.
So this will click on first three checkboxes just based on the condition it will check.
And this is also possible only with the normal for loop.
In these two particular cases, enhanced for loop is not supported because we are working with a specific
web elements.
Run it.
Okay.
Now first three checkboxes are got selected.
Suppose I have selected all the checkboxes now I want to unselect.
Possible to select tick boxes by its value.
Tick box by its value.
Yes you can, it is possible, but you need to take the two x paths because you need to collect the
X path for this label and get the text from it.
If the text is equal to Sunday, and then get this particular checkbox and then select.
So this is again becomes indirect process.
That is possible, but it is.
We need to write a two different text paths.
Okay, fine.
In the next example I will show you that.
So for example, let's say I have already selected some check boxes three check boxes I have selected.
So I want to unselect the checkbox.
So whatever checkboxes are already selected I want to unselect them.
And whatever checkboxes are already not selected, then I want to select them.
See the requirement.
Understand this very clearly.
So I have seven checkboxes 34567 checkboxes.
So by using this looping statement first three got selected.
Now my requirement is after selecting three my requirement is whatever checkboxes are already selected
I want to unselect.
Whatever.
Checkboxes are unselected, not selected.
I want to select reverse way.
Okay.
By using this looping statement, I already selected three checkboxes.
Now I want to unselect them and whatever checkboxes are unselected, I want to select them reverse way.
Okay.
So what we should do now.
We need to apply a condition.
If checkbox is already selected, then do unselect.
If the checkbox is not selected, then select it.
So we need to apply one condition.
Okay.
We need to first check the checkbox is selected or not.
If it is already selected then we need to unselect.
If it is not selected then we need to select reverse.
Okay, we'll see how we can do it.
So I will give this loop as it is because this will select first three elements.
Now the second one.
Select.
Or unselect.
Checkboxes.
Now, if you just observe when I write a for loop, I'm taking from the beginning index.
Or you can write enhancement for loop here.
Why?
Because we are going to work with all the checkboxes, not only specific checkbox we can enhance.
You can use enhanced for loop okay.
Let me use enhanced for loop.
So I'm taking all the checkboxes and take the checkbox into one variable.
And kickbox.
And this is a web element.
And now when I say k box dot click then what happens?
This will do our job.
So whatever.
Checkboxes.
Suppose if the checkbox is already selected when I apply, click method that will unselect.
When I suppose if the checkbox is not selected when I apply click method, it will select the checkbox
is already selected.
When I apply click method it will unselect, so this will do the job.
Run as Java application.
So what I will do is I will put some weight here because it will go very faster.
We cannot see the.
Operation.
I can say this is not because of synchronization problem.
I just I want to pass my code for some time here 5000 milliseconds.
Okay.
Okay.
First three checkboxes have selected.
Using first for loop.
Now we can see first three checkboxes are unselected.
Now rest of them are selected.
So this will work fine, but it is not the best way to do it.
So we will check the condition first okay.
If the checkbox is already selected then uncheck it.
If the checkbox is not selected, then select it.
How we can apply the condition here.
If.
This checkbox dot is selected.
If it is true.
If it is selected, true.
Then what we should do.
Checkbox dot click.
Is selected is true.
If it is, returns true.
Click method.
So both the ways it will work actually.
Okay, so you can say easy selected method when it will return true if the select box is already selected.
Then when I apply click method, then what happens here?
It will perform unselect.
Okay.
Here it will perform.
Unselect.
Else.
So, for example, he selected his return.
False.
Even it is a false.
We do the same thing.
So in this case here it will select.
Same command here.
It will unselect the checkbox.
Here it will select the checkbox same command, but here before Unselecting it will check it is already
selected or not.
If it is selected then it will unselect if it is not selected.
Then it will select.
So same command will work for selecting and also unselecting.
So it doesn't matter.
Even if you don't put looping a conditional statement, still it is fine.
Okay.
So now what I will do is I will comment this loop statement earlier one.
Now observe.
So by default all the checkboxes are unselected.
So this will return false.
So this will execute.
So by default none of the checkboxes are selected.
So that loop statement will select all the checkboxes.
See all checkboxes are selected.
Okay.
Now, what I will do is.
I will write another looping statement.
Same loop.
Okay.
Here this loop is selected all the checkboxes.
Now this loop will remove all the checkboxes.
I will put this here.
So this loop will select all the checkboxes.
This will unselect all the checkboxes.
Okay.
First it is selected all the checkboxes.
Now the second for loop will unselect all the checkboxes.
The same command we have to use to select or unselecting the checkboxes.
Okay.
So these are the operations we can do on the checkboxes.
So we can select specific checkbox.
We can capture all the checkboxes.
We can count how many are there.
We can select specific checkboxes.
We can select checkboxes.
From the end.
We can select checkboxes from the beginning.
And we can select or unselect.
So these are the different operations we can use.
Is there any way we can select any of the checkboxes?
You need to write a specific xpaths.
Okay.
For example, you want to select a random checkboxes.
Let's say, uh, I have multiple checkboxes like this randomly.
You want to select, let's say this is A1234567.
I want to select this one and this one.
Or I want to select first one and last one.
So if you want to do this you need to write a specific XPath for them.
And you need to write a multiple statements okay.
Multiple statements you have to write.
So with the loop is not possible with the loop.
What is possible is if there is an a sequence then with the loop we can do it okay.
For example 1234567 are there.
Now I want to select this a zero index 123456.
Like this.
Now if you want to select these three or these two or last three in this there is a sequence.
So you know starting index ending index.
Then you can use a looping statement.
But if you want to select a specific like this one and this one or randomly this one or this one and
this is not possible using a looping statement, you have to write a specific XPath for those elements
and you need to select.
Yes, that is also correct.
So if you specify equal to two condition, only the second checkbox will be selected.
The second checkbox will be selected.
Yeah.
In that way, you can handle.
Okay.
Suppose, uh, in this particular loop, I just remove this.
Okay.
So randomly if you want to select for example.
So here you can specify in the enhanced for loop it is not possible but only in the normal for loop
it is possible.
And let me show you this.
Select specific checkboxes.
Randomly.
So normal for loop only possible enhanced for loop.
Not possible.
So here I can say I equal to zero.
I less than I.
Less than checkboxes dot size.
Checkboxes dot size I plus plus.
So here you need to put if condition.
So what are the checkboxes.
You want to select among seven checkboxes that you can put.
So I equal to first checkbox I want to select or I equal to third checkbox I want to select or I equal
to seventh checkbox I want to select.
First checkbox.
Okay.
Third checkbox and then seventh checkbox I want to select.
So 137I put.
Then you can write here.
So checkboxes.
So this is the way we can do.
If you want to use looping statement, it's a get off I and dot click.
Okay, so you can do like this.
If you want to select a specific checkboxes randomly, you can put condition like this.
Expectancy.
So I said one, three and seven.
Okay, now we can see.
I think seventh one is not there.
0123456 is the last one because index start from zero six is the last one, so seventh is not there.
So you should say 16.
Okay.
So this is a way we can select if you still want to use a looping statement.
Fine.
So everybody's clear on this checkboxes concept.
So these are the different type of operations we can do on the checkboxes.
Yes, you can use still XPath.
You have to write a XPath for first element, third element, sixth element.
Three different statements you have to write if you don't want to use a looping statement.
Okay.
So suppose here there's a checkbox and there's a label right.
So based on the label if you want to select the checkbox you need to write a logic for that.
Okay, let me show you that.
But I don't recommend this directly.
Go with the element, not the label.
So if you still want to do it, you can do like this.
Suppose.
Uh, based on the value I want.
Select the checkbox.
Okay.
So for example, let's say I'm taking one string variable string wake name equal to I'm taking uh,
some value let's say here Sunday Monday.
All capitals are there.
So here I'm taking Sunday.
This is my input value.
So whatever input value I'm providing here, based on that I want to select the checkbox.
Okay.
So if I say Sunday only Sunday checkbox should be selected.
If I give Friday Friday select checkbox should be selected okay.
So how we can do it.
So if the week name equal to whatever it is we need to select.
So we need to put one condition if.
Week name equal to, or you can write a switch case statement also for all the elements.
Let's write it okay.
So switch case statement will be very easy to do it.
So let me take.
Switcher.
Weak name.
Switch week name I'm taking as a parameter.
And here we need to write a multiple cases.
Okay.
Now what is the first case is the first case is the value is let's say Sunday.
So now we need to select the Sunday checkbox.
So it is send a checkbox.
Here it is.
Now we need to write an XPath for this Sunday checkbox.
So this is the one.
Take this.
So if it is Sunday, then take this value.
Then here what we can do.
Driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Specify the Sunday dot click and after that we say break.
Like this.
Okay.
So like this you can put multiple conditions.
So based on the value we can select whichever checkbox you want.
4567.
So this is another scenario.
So the value you can pass and accordingly this will go and select the value here Sunday.
Here it is a Monday.
Tuesday.
Regret.
Don't stay.
Okay and XPath will change here.
Sunday.
It should be Monday.
And these are all case sensitive values you need to carefully write.
Okay, so I did it.
So based on the value which we have passed as an input, if it is Sunday, then it will go and select
the Sunday which is a Monday.
Then it will go and select the Monday.
And according to do that.
So Friday.
And here you can say default here case is not needed.
So by default I'm taking Saturday.
And here break is not needed.
Or else what you can do is Saturday.
You can put but other case you can write.
Yes.
Default.
And here you can print.
Invalid.
A weak name.
Invalid weakness.
Okay.
So this is how we can write another logic.
So take the input value and based on the input it will go and select.
So I'm taking Sunday here.
And let's execute and see.
Okay, now Sunday's got selected.
Let us pass Saturday.
Okay.
Saturday score selected.
So this is another way we can do it.
So by writing multiple conditions.
So if you want to select the checkbox based on the value you can take that value as a input.
Okay.
And then compare with all the checkboxes values.
And then you can select whichever checkbox you want.
So this is a another logic.
Select checkbox based on the value.
This is another requirement.
Fine.
So this is all about checkboxes.
Okay.
So actually we have to discuss some other concept called, uh, alerts.
So will that postpone to the next class?
So next class we will continue.
I'll stop here.
I will quickly show you radio buttons also, and then we'll finish it off.
So in the radio buttons we don't have these many choices actually.
Okay.
So in the radio buttons, because we can select only one value at a time, we cannot select multiple
values.
So this is only one option we can select.
So let's see how we can handle the radio buttons.
New class.
Handle.
Radio buttons.
Again.
I'm taking the same page.
And, uh, now I can select only one valid item.
You can find.
How many radio buttons are there here?
Suppose there are only two radio buttons, so no need to find if you still want to.
Suppose you have 5 or 10 radio buttons anyway, you you won't see like that actually.
Have you seen anywhere five radio buttons or ten radio buttons?
No.
If you have more than two options, most of the times you can see checkboxes.
If they want to put more than two options, definitely they will use checkboxes.
Okay, so radio buttons group always will see only two radio buttons not more than two.
Okay, so obviously the radio buttons count should be only two.
Now, if you want to select one of them, you can directly select the checkbox.
You can see this is a checkbox.
And uh the name is available and uh ID is also available.
So let me write one XPath for this.
So I have written this XPath.
This is pointing to male radio button and if I change id female then it is point to female radio button
male and a female radio button.
I can use this XPath.
It's very straightforward.
Driver dot find element by dot XPath.
Dot.
Click the same method again.
So this will return.
And if you want to check selected or not again you can say driver dot find element by dot XPath.
And get this element in a variable, I can say.
Male underscore radio button.
This is a web element.
And also I capture female radio button just by changing the XPath.
Right.
So now if you want to verify the status.
So before clicking I want to verify the status.
Take this major button dot is selected.
So this will return true or false.
We can check the status of the radio button.
Organ say status of or.
Select status of the.
Male radio button.
So you can select like this.
Select the status of the mail radio button and same thing I can find.
Select the status of the.
Female radio button.
Okay, but at any time we can select only one.
So after that I will select a mail order button dot click.
So this will select.
And then after selection again I'm printing the status of both the radio button.
Select status of the mail order button.
And select the status of the female reader button.
So here we already selected.
This is before selection.
I can write one more statement.
So this is before selection.
And after clicking it is after.
Selecting.
Male radio button.
Okay.
Now execute.
Okay, so one radio button is got selected.
So before selection.
Both are false because none of them are selected.
But after selecting May later button, it becomes true and other one is becomes false.
So here looping statements.
All those things won't work like checkboxes, because we have only two radio buttons that two we can
select only one radio button at a time.
Okay, so what other options are possible in checkboxes.
They won't possible in radio buttons because in the radio buttons only two we have the two.
We can select only one radio button at a time.
That's the reason it's not possible.
But the method is same.
Whatever method we use for check boxes, same method we can use for radio buttons also that is click
method.
Okay.
So same thing for input box we already seen many times.
You can just inspect that element by using send keys.
We can pass the data and we can also verify the display status enabled status.
Display status enabled or not displayed or not, we can select.
Then we can pass the value by using send keys method input box we already discussed many times.
Okay, so this is all about checkboxes and radio buttons.
So in the next class we will continue the rest of them.
And in this particular page there are multiple radio buttons here.
These are these are all elements which are there inside the form.
Actually this is a frame.
So we need to handle this in the different way.
We will discuss that in the next session.
And don't try to handle them now okay.
So if you want to do like this it cannot work directly because these elements are inside the frame.
Right.
So I'll give you some assignment.
You guys can try this.
Just a second.
The radio buttons.
Right?
Okay.
So this is assignment.
The first assignment.
This is the link.
So what you need to do is.
Okay.
Once you open the link you will see the radio buttons.
Different type of radio buttons here so you can select blue red.
See there are multiple radio buttons are there.
But still you are able to select only one radio button.
Okay.
And here also there are three radio buttons, but at a time we can select only one radio button.
You can try to practice this.
Okay.
This is one assignment for radio buttons.
This is for.
Radio buttons.
So first one and the second one.
Just a second.
Tick boxes.
So this is another link.
So you can see two.
Only two checkboxes are there.
You can just select unselect.
So whatever operations we have done same operations you can do on these two checkboxes.
So you guys can try this another x okay.
Write these two first practice my class examples.
And after that you can try these two checkboxes and radio buttons.
In the next class we will discuss with different kind of elements like how to handle alerts, how to
handle the frames, and how to handle the multiple browser windows we already seen in the last class.
So alerts and frames we will try to cover in the next class.
Checkboxes and radio buttons.
Okay, so that's all for today's session.
I'll stop here and we will continue tomorrow.
Our next class.