All right.
So today we'll see one of the most important topic in API testing.
Uh, the topic is chaining of APIs or API chaining.
So what exactly the meaning of API chaining.
So API chaining allows you to execute multiple API requests in a sequence where the output from one
request is used as an input for subsequent request.
So what does that mean.
Suppose we are sending a request API request and we got some response.
And we will take that response.
And we will pass that response as a as part of input for another request.
So which is basically called as chaining of uh API request or API chaining okay.
So most of the times we follow this approach in our API testing projects For example, let's say I created
some or let's say I send some post request.
Okay, so when I say post is nothing but what it will create some resource.
It can create some student or user or something.
So what is a Post request will do.
It will create something.
So whenever it is create something it will generate some timestamp or ID something.
Right.
So this is the response.
So we'll get the ID is got generated as part of the response.
Now by taking the ID from the response we will send another request called get request.
And this will return the user details or student details as part of the response.
So this is called API chaining.
And similarly if you want to delete the user request or if you want to delete the user or student,
again we will take the same ID and we will use it for what?
Another request.
So delete request.
So what does that mean?
Execute multiple API requests in a sequence.
Why?
We are saying as a sequence.
Because until unless the IDs got generated, we cannot capture it and pass it to the another request.
So this is a sequence is required.
So before sending Post request, if you send get request you won't get the ID right.
So sequence is very very important.
So execute multiple API request in a sequence where the output from the one request.
So here id is an output from one request is used as an input for another request or multiple request.
We can use this as an input.
So this process is called API chaining okay.
So today we will try to implement this API chaining by taking some public API and which is also required
a token authentication.
Okay.
So today I will show you some a demo API which is required for token authentication.
I will also show you demonstrate you how we can use token authentication for API request.
And then we will try to understand how we can implement API chaining.
Listen this carefully.
Most important concept.
So first of all before implementing API chaining.
So let us try to understand the what kind of API we are going to use as part of this demonstration.
So I have a go rest API which is very popular API.
Most of the people will know which is available in internet, which is a basically public API.
We can access all the request, all the URLs are available, go rest API and this is the actual URL.
And if you go to this URL you will find what are all APIs.
They are provided, but if you want to use those APIs, you need to create a access token, which is
basically called as a bearer token.
Authentication is required to access this API.
So the token we have to create.
So otherwise we cannot send the request using go request.
Go rest.
So first of all we will see that process how we can access go rest API, how we can create access token
and what are the different type of URLs are available.
What kind of request body we have to send.
So we will try to understand the uh about go rest API first, and then we will implement API chaining
by using go rest API.
Okay.
So how we can access go rest API.
So I can just go to Google and just find out go rest API.
Okay.
Which is very popular.
Many people know and you can do a lot of practices on this.
You can simply search for go Rest API and you can find the URL.
Or if you could not find here I provided that URL in the document itself.
Go rest.co dot in so you can directly open this URL on the browser.
Go rest.co dot in.
So when you go to this URL you can find the API documentation.
So basically it support GraphQL, Rest API and many more things.
But we will try to use rest API for now.
So here there are different resources resources in the sense they are different users.
Users post comment todos okay.
There are different type of URLs are there.
And this is and again different versions are available and a lot of content is also there in the same
page.
Everything is got provided here.
This is all part of requirement.
So to access this API what are the things we need to have.
So here if I look at here get your access token.
You can see this link right.
So by using this link we have to create the access token first.
By using this link we can create our access token.
It's very simple easy to do that okay.
Once you you've created your access token, then how we can access the URLs and we are trying to use
this particular resource users resource.
Similarly, we have a post resource comments to those different resources are there.
And for API chaining for demo purpose I'm using this particular resource.
So if I go and open this link and you can see that URL is giving some data, this is actual data which
is coming, which is given as part of response.
When I send this URL, which is the response which is given okay.
And this is the resource actually.
And for this particular resource you can see there are four type of request here.
For every resource there is a different type of request they have given.
So for users if I look at this users so you can see post request public slash v2 slash users.
This is a resource for get request.
This is another resource for put or patch request and delete request.
So these are the four different type of request we can send for this particular users URL.
Okay so I have documented it very clearly.
So if I just scroll down here I mentioned a small table.
So this is the URL we have to pass along with this URL.
We need to add this path also.
This is path parameters.
Basically there are no query parameters here.
All of them are path parameters.
So along with this URL we need to add this path.
And we can send Post request.
By adding this path we can send get request.
By adding this path we can use post request or delete request.
And here 23 is basically the ID of the user.
So once you send a Post request, it will create a new user with some ID and that id we can pass in
the Get request, put request and delete request.
So these are the four different type of request we are going to test as part of API chaining.
Because ID is required for all rest of three requests okay get request, put request and delete request.
We need ID so that ID will be generated by sending Post request.
Okay so these are the four URLs we have.
And before accessing it we need to create a token.
So to simply create a token just click on this link get your access token.
And here it will ask you three types of options GitHub.
Google Microsoft.
So if you have a Google Email ID you can just click on this Google.
Or if you have a GitHub account, you can click on GitHub.
Provide your email address password.
Similarly, if I just click on the Google, provide your email address, password or Microsoft.
Whichever you want, just click on it, provide your authentication and then you will see the access
token immediately it will create.
So by using GitHub I already created.
So can I show you a screenshot how I have created.
If I look at this.
So here these are the three options I have been shown.
I just click on the GitHub.
You can use Google or Microsoft whichever you want.
So once I click on the GitHub.
So here it is asking for authorization.
Then I provided my GitHub email and password.
Then you will see this button authorize XV.
So once you click on it and then it will automatically show you the token like this.
So this yellow mark you can see right.
This is called actually token right.
So this token we can use uh to send different type of API request.
So this is the process and I have copied my token here.
So you guys create your own token.
Because this token is not permanent it will be expired.
So every time I will delete this token as soon as my session is completed.
So you can create your own token and you can use it.
Okay.
So maximum it never expires.
But if you want to delete it, you can simply delete or you can create a new token also.
Okay.
And you can create multiple tokens also if you want.
So option is available.
Right?
So very simple.
Just go to this page and click on this link.
Get your access token and you authenticate with by using any of these options.
And simply click on this authorize GV and then it will generate the token okay.
So once we have this token keep it with you.
Now we can start sending the request okay.
So as a prerequisite we have all the different type of request.
And we have created one token and URL with us.
Everything is there.
So now we will try to understand chaining process.
So how we can link these four request.
So here I have shown you a small picture.
So based on this we can understand the workflow.
So how we can link them how we can chain them.
First thing we need to start with the post request.
What the Post request will do.
It will create a new user.
So to create a new user what are the things I will pass request body.
We have to pass.
So in the request body we need to send name, gender, email and status.
So when you pass these four details as part of request body or request payload, and it will go and
create a user with a Post request.
And that will generate the ID.
So once you send a Post request that will generate a ID of the user.
Now by using this ID, I can send another three request get user update user delete user.
So when I send this id in the get user, this will again gives you ID name and email address.
And again we can compare.
So at the time of creating the user whatever request body we have sent, what are the details we have
sent after creating the user?
When I pass id as a parameter to the get user, this will also return the same ID, same name, same
email id right?
So this validation also we can do for the get user.
After that I will try to update existing users.
So by using this ID I will try to change the name, email and status of the existing user.
That's called update user means what?
I can send a put request.
And this is a Get request.
And by using same ID I can do the delete user request and every request I will add some validation points.
Okay this is the overall picture.
So workflow now two important challenges are here.
So what are the challenges.
So first request we can easily send okay.
By passing this request payload we can send Post request and we will get the ID fine.
But to pass this ID into another another request we have to store this ID in somewhere else right.
Somewhere we have to hold that ID in some variable and that I can use in multiple request.
Right.
So in the create user for this particular request we have a pre request script.
Post response script.
Right.
Normally in the prerequisite steps what you will do we will create a variables in the post response
scripts.
What you will do you will add validations.
Remember this point okay.
Because in the last class we have discussed it in detail.
For every request we have a prerequisite.
Pre script Pre-request script post request script.
In the pre request script we will add variables in the post request post response script we will add
validations okay.
Now once you send your create user and for creating the user we need this data name gender email status.
We need this data right.
So where we can define this data even data also I want to define Fight dynamically.
So before sending this, create user request or post request where exactly we can define this data in
the Pre-request script or Post request script where in Pre-request script.
Perfect.
Now after creating the user after sending the post request, we will get an ID right?
ID is what part of the response?
Part of the response.
And now I want to store this ID in some variable.
I will create one variable and as soon as I got the response, I will capture this ID from the response.
And I'll store in some variable.
And where I can do that in the Pre-request script or post request script, because after getting the
response only we will get the ID right.
So capturing the ID and storing it into a variable can be done in the Post request.
Okay, first thing is done.
So this is the first request we need to do.
So we need to first send a Post request in which under prerequisites prerequisite Pre-request script,
we have to add variables, name, gender, email status, and after getting the response, we need to
capture the id and create a variable under post response script.
So let us first finish this part and then we will go with an another type of request.
Everybody's understood this part.
The first part till here post request.
Okay.
So now let us move on to the postman.
And now I will create a new collection today Blank Collection.
And I'll name it as day five underscore uh API chaining okay.
So now new collection has got created.
So inside this I'm going to add a new request and get request.
And here I will name it as Create user.
Create user.
Now what type of request we are going to send post request.
Right.
So we need to take the post request.
And what is the URL we have to send.
So we need to pass this URL along with this path parameter okay.
So we need to add this URL.
First go to the postman.
This is the URL slash and this is the path parameter okay.
This is the path parameter.
Right.
So this is the URL we have to pass I provided all the details in the below.
You can guys you can go with this okay.
First we need to create a user.
This is a URL we have to send.
And what is a body we have to send.
So name gender email status.
So this is the body we have to send request body.
Now I'm passing this body.
So where we need to specify the body under body session and then raw because the JSON format we need
to take JSON.
And here.
Okay.
So in this response body sorry.
In the request body user name and user email I will generate dynamically.
I don't want to hardcode those two details okay.
So where I can create these two these are the actual variable names I'm referring user name and user
email.
So where I can define this variables where we can create this variables in which script pre request
or post response in the pre request okay.
So in the body I'm referring user user name and user email.
So these two parameters we required.
So I will create these two uh because before sending the request we need to have these two values.
So where we need to create them under Pre-request.
So under Pre-request we need to add we can create any type of variable either collection variable or
global variable or environment variable.
Anything is fine.
But don't create a local variables because why we don't create a local variables because we want to
use this responses in another request.
If I create a id as a local variable right, then what will happen even if you create them here?
Name.
Gender.
Email local variable.
They are request specific only within the request we can access, but we want to validate them in another
request also.
Right.
So better to create a global variable or environment variable or collection variable is also fine because
all the requests are part of single collection.
So what I'm going to do is I want to create two things.
So two uh, collection variables I will create because here I need two variables.
It's the moment.
Okay, so under body we already specified the request payload.
And in this username and email addresses we need to create and go to the scripts Pre-request script.
Now how to create a collection variable.
Last class we have seen PM dot collection variables.
Dot.
What is the method?
Setter right.
Set the get and set only three methods are there.
Very easy to remember.
Set is for what creating the variable and set is what deleting the variable.
Get is what retrieving the data from the variable.
So collection variables dot set.
And here we need to pass two parameters.
The first parameter is what user name comma.
Here we need to pass some username.
I say a b c x y z okay.
And similarly we will create user email.
So same thing user email and a b c x y z at the rate gmail.com or anything you can say yahoo.com right.
So I've created two variables user name and user email at the collection variables level.
So when I create them collection level then we can access everywhere within the collection within all
the request.
So where I have created them under the scripts Pre-request now save the request.
I'm not sending you now, so we just saved it.
Okay, now in the post response, what we need to do now in the post response okay, so we have created
the post request here, right?
We have sent the URL and we specified the body.
So whatever the variable we created under Pre-request script user name and user email I'm just capturing
them here.
Username and email.
So perfectly fine.
If I send this request it will go and create a user.
Once it is created, the user we need to capture the ID of the user, right?
That is our ultimate goal.
So we need to capture the ID of the user, the how to capture the ID of the user.
Now see the diagram.
So we just send this request create user and which will generate the id.
And now we need to capture this ID from the response.
And we need to store it in some variable because that variable we will refer in other request.
So now how we can do that where we need to do that.
So when I send this request anyway it will generate the response from that response we need to capture.
Let me send this first okay I'm sending this.
See authentication failed.
So why it is saying authentication failed because this API is required access token.
At the beginning I I've told you.
Right.
So this API is required access token authentication failed.
So we need to provide the access token.
So we have already created an access token.
So what I will do is where we need to have that access token where we need to keep that access token.
There are multiple places guys.
Suppose you have multiple requests right post get put delete and the other access token is required
all the request.
So instead of suppose if you want to add access token for this request you need to go to authorization
tab here okay.
And in this you need to take the bearer token authentication.
And here you can paste like this.
And if you do like this for every request you need to continue this.
For every request go to authorization.
Take the bearer token and provide the access token.
So instead of doing this for every request because access token is same for all the request.
So what I will do is I will add this access token at the collection level.
Okay.
At the collection level.
So what I will do I just go to the collection.
And in the collection select I have selected the collection.
Right.
Here also you can see authorization.
So instead of adding authorization access token for every request I'm just going to the parent collection
because all the requests are belongs to the same collection.
So if you add that access token at the collection level, that will automatically applicable for every
request inside the collection.
So go to authorization.
And here I'm taking bearer token authorization.
And here I'm providing the token.
Don't give any spaces or nothing as it is you need to provide and then save it.
That's it.
So once you have saved it right now go to the request and here make sure you have inherit auth from
parent.
Make sure you have selected this option.
Okay.
So then after adding the access token, now I'm sending the request.
See this.
Now it has got generated response c a b c x y z name email address have given mail and inactive.
So this is the ID which has got generated.
So now what we need to do.
We need to capture this ID from the response and create another variable which we need to use in multiple
request get user.
We need id update user.
Also we need ID or delete user.
Also we need the same id.
So after creating the user, once you get a response we need to capture the ID from the response.
Okay, so where we have to capture the ID from the response where we can do that and the same request,
go to the scripts and a post response.
Write the post response.
Only we can capture.
The last class we have seen how to capture the response, how to capture this whole Response after sending
the response.
How to capture the response.
PM dot response dot JSON.
Perfect.
So PM dot JSON dot response.
So what is PM dot response dot JSON.
PM dot response dot JSON.
So now this method will return entire JSON response into variable.
So I'm just storing into JSON data.
And this variable can be defined with a var keyword.
Or you can create with the let keyword JavaScript.
There are three things are there.
So we can define with a var or we can define with the let or we can define with the const in JavaScript.
Also we have a data types okay.
But it is dynamically script or dynamically typed programming language actually means what We no need
to specify the data type before the variable like integer, float, or double right?
So we don't need to specify depends upon the type of the data which is written automatically.
The data type will be assigned to the variable.
So we can suppose if we don't want to change the value of the variable, make it as a const here, or
else we can specify where or let.
So these are.
The three keywords are available in JavaScript because I don't want to change this value every time.
So I make it as a constant.
So what this statement will do now this will capture the whole response.
But I don't need all the response.
I need only id part.
So from the JSON data we need to capture the id, we need to capture the id.
So how to capture this.
How to capture only ID and we need to create a variable also.
So from the JSON data listen carefully which is important from the JSON data.
How to capture this ID because we don't have anything right directly.
This is JSON object.
So JSON data, dot id JSON path, JSON data.id.
This will actually give the id.
But I want to create a variable.
And in that variable I will store this value.
Okay.
So I will create another collection variable here PM dot collection variable dot set.
And here I will say user id.
User id is my variable name okay.
And what is the value of the user id.
This will give you value that I can put here comma user ID you understood now.
So after sending the request what we have done under post response, we capture the entire JSON response.
From the response we capture the id with that id we created a variable collection variable we created
okay.
So once you created this collection variable we can use this variable in another request also.
Right.
So now let me send this request once again.
Now you can see what are we saying.
Field email message has already been taken.
Why we are getting this because duplicate emails are not allowed.
Earlier we already passed some email address here.
Right.
So same email address.
We cannot pass again and again.
So that is the reason it is giving field email has already been exist already taken in the previous
request.
So now what we can do we can generate this email dynamically.
So we just hardcoded this email right.
Whenever you send the request same email ID will be passed and it is duplicated.
So you every time you will get this response.
So we have to dynamically pass some email ID.
So in JavaScript do we have any Methodology through which we can create a dynamic text or dynamic string
in Java Python.
There are so many methods out there, right?
We have already seen in the past classes.
So in JavaScript, do we have any method through which we can create a dynamic text or dynamic string?
Yes.
So I will add this here in future if you want you can use.
So in JavaScript you have a predefined class called math.
In this we have to call a method called random inside the random.
This random method will return some random characters number and that we need to again convert into
two string.
And here we can pass how many characters you want, how many characters this max 36 characters.
And inside this I'm calling one more method called substring and two substring of two.
So this is a constant code guys in JavaScript.
So this will actually generate the random text.
So I'm creating a one variable here const some text okay.
So this particular statement will generate generate random text okay.
So now I can use this text random text here.
But can we use directly like this.
Because this is a variable right.
We cannot directly do that.
So what we can do now simply you can say we will create another variable email equal to text concatenation.
Here I can say yahoo.com or gmail.com.
Whatever you want you can specify.
So now what is this email.
Now email is actually email right.
That I can pass here.
Now you understood everyone.
So how we have generated this content?
Text.
Random text.
And if you want to print this in the console window also you can just print it if you want I can just
print it.
So how we can print this.
Simple.
How we can print this?
In the last class I have shown you console, dot log and email.
So whatever email it has got generated we are just printing it in the console window.
After that I am passing the username and email address randomly.
Okay, now save it and then execute one more time.
Yeah.
Now what is an error field email is invalid.
Still it is giving invalid email because this is a variable.
We have to define const.
You can put var whatever you want.
So I just put a constant.
Now this becomes a variable.
Now save it and execute one more time Unprocessable entity.
I think concatenation is not properly working.
Sorry.
Uh, user email.
Okay.
Field equal to email.
This is fine.
So this email we are just passing same email we are passing here.
There is some syntax error.
Field email message is invalid.
Uh, sorry.
Yeah.
At the rate is missing.
Exactly.
So we need to pass at the rate also.
Okay.
Yeah.
Save it and send it.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Now we can see this is the email address randomly generated.
Okay.
Now in every time when you send this request, the new email ID will be generated.
So you won't get any issues here.
Perfect.
Now after creating this, the data we already used as part of the body write username email.
But what about the variable in the post response?
We created this variable right?
User id so where it will store.
Can we check here.
Collection variables go here.
Now we can see under variables all variables you can see collection.
User ID is not generated or not.
Same user same ID right.
So 323326333326.
And the same username say user email is also got created.
And these two variable we created before sending the request.
And this variable is got created dynamically after getting the response.
Understood everyone.
So how we have handled the first request.
So this is a very important.
So once you are able to handle the first request rest of them are very simple.
So when I send a Post request before sending the Post request I've created a user name and user email
and same data have passed.
After getting the response, I captured the entire response, and from the response I capture the only
ID with this ID.
I created another variable.
Now the variable is available here.
Now this variable I will refer this id.
I will refer in another request.
Okay so let me do that.
Save it and then go and create another request.
So what's the next request.
So we created the user.
Now we want to get the user details.
So step two get the user details.
How to get the user details.
What is the URL we have.
So this is a URL we have to pass.
And again when you get the user details we have to pass user ID as a parameter user id as a parameter.
Now go back and create another request get request.
So add request.
And here I'll say get user.
And this is a URL.
Now you can just see user ID is a email id I'm referring which is already created by previous request
and same user id I'm referring here.
Okay.
And do you want to pass any body here because it's a Get request.
We don't need any body okay.
But what are the things we can validate here.
And I'll go to the script.
So do you want to pass anything under Pre-request pre request.
No need because we no need to create anything right.
And post response we do validations.
What are the validations we do.
For example let's say I'm sending this request now I have not added anything just I'm sending the request.
Now we can see we got the data.
We send the Get request.
This user ID is captured from the variable.
Now we got the data.
Now I want to verify this data.
What?
I can verify the say ID is exactly the same or not.
Whatever ID which is created from the, uh, in the previous request, that ID and here, whatever ID
we are getting here that should be same name also should be same email also should be same because these
three details id name email.
We already created variables.
Here you can see name user email user id.
So now we need to compare these three from the response.
We need to capture these three details and compare with the values of these three variables.
If I look at the picture you will understand this.
See, after passing the ID, we will get the user and the user.
When I send the get user, it is returning ID name, email and these three fields.
Again I will validate from the previous fields.
Whatever the fields we are passing at the time of creating user, the same data should be there after
getting the user also.
So what are the things I can add here?
Post pre request or post response where you can add comparison?
First I need to capture this data and then I want to compare with the variables.
So post response after sending the response only we can add.
Yeah.
Now tell me how to capture the response.
pm.pm dot response dot JSON.
So this will actually returns the data.
So I say const JSON data right.
So now we need to capture multiple fields.
So not only id we need to capture id name also email address.
So three things I want to capture.
At the same time I want to compare those three with this variables which are correct or not okay comparison.
Also there.
So we need to add assertions here.
So not only creating captioning, we need to also add assertions.
So first of all, let's go back to the post response.
We capture the JSON data.
So once we capture the JSON data what we need to do now we need to write.
What we need to write here we need to verify right.
So we need to write a arrow function right.
We need to write an arrow function.
Validations we need to do comparison is required earlier.
We have not written any arrow function.
When I go to the create user under post response.
Have I created any arrow function here?
Have we done any validation?
Actually here we have not done actual validation.
So what exactly we have done here?
We just created a variable.
We have not done any comparisons, no validations, nothing.
Right.
But now this time we need to do validation.
Also we need to capture this data and compare with the variable this data username, email address and
user ID.
So for comparison, we need to write a arrow function.
Now I already captured the JSON data here.
Now let us create an arrow function.
PM dot test.
PM dot test.
Right.
So here I can write the test description.
So I can write some description and say validation of validation JSON fields or validating JSON fields.
So this is my text.
Comma and bracket arrow function I am writing.
So this is the syntax of writing arrow function.
And after curly brace we need to open this and close it.
Now inside this arrow function we need to capture the id name email addresses and compare with these
three variables so how we can capture it.
First, there are multiple things we need to do.
First ID we will capture how to capture the ID from the response.
Now you should guide me.
So ID is already there in the response.
So we need to capture this ID from the response here.
How to capture this JSON
data.id.
Okay so this is the capturing the data right.
So this will give the ID and that I want to compare with our variable.
So this will give the data actually.
And this I want to compare with the user ID of the variable.
Okay.
Before that how to compare this.
What is our session.
PM dot expect is a session.
So now I'll keep it here.
PM dot expect this JSON data.id .2. equal two dot equal.
And now we need to compare.
So this json.id should be equal to what this user id.
Now how to capture this user ID from the variable here.
Here we need to write.
So how to capture or let's write a separately.
How to capture the user ID from the variable.
From the variable.
From the variable.
So here user id is already there I want to capture this from the collection variable.
I want to get the value of the variable c curly braces.
Here we have used write.
If you are trying to access this variable as part of the request URL, then you have to use curly braces
syntax okay.
But here I want to capture the value using JavaScript.
Using JavaScript I want to get the value from the variable.
What is the method?
Get is a method okay pm dot.
This is also we discussed in the last class PM dot collection variables.
Dot.
What?
Get off!
And what is the variable name here?
User id okay, now this will actually gives you value of the variable so that I can pass here inside
the bracket.
Okay I just close this.
Okay.
So now you understood this single step.
So what I have done, I captured the ID from the response and also capture the user ID from the collection
variable.
And I'm comparing this using expect method.
This is one comparison.
Now let us also compare email address and name also.
Okay same thing.
We will repeat.
PM dot expect now name.
Also we need to verify name two equal and name is also there in the collection variable, right?
If I go back here and see here user name is there user email.
So these two also we can verify.
So let me capture the user name.
So user name done.
Another validation.
So what is the next thing here.
Email address.
Email JSON data dot email.
Compare with what user email from the variable.
That's it.
Okay three validations we have added in the test method.
Everybody's understood this.
So we have captured the response.
And from the response we are capturing ID name email address.
Also comparing with what user ID user name and email.
So these three are the variables.
And here ID name emails or data from the response.
So we have achieved this one actually the first part.
So once pass ID get user request we have sent it is given the id name email.
We are compared with the actual data.
Okay this comparison is done.
Okay.
Now let us execute and see whether it will work or not.
So before doing that because now get user is dependent on what create user.
Now we need to run sequentially right.
So once you run the create user it will create a new user.
And variables will be created newly.
And after that get user request we have to send.
First let me run the create user again and I send a create user.
Now we can see the id has got changed, email ID has got changed.
And if I go and see the variables you can see ID has got changed.
Email is got changed.
Okay now go back to the get user now.
So this user ID dynamically gets and these variables will be verified now.
So when I send this request, see that test results passed.
Okay.
So this is how we can link two different type of request.
Create user get user for the get user.
Have you applied any authorization here?
No authorization.
Why?
Because we already added other other token at the collection level.
So the same token is applicable for create user and get user.
Okay.
So if you want to check go to the Get user and see authorization.
It is saying inherit auth from parent.
What does that mean.
It is automatically inheriting authorization from the parent.
What is the parent here is collection.
Okay so everything is clear.
So far we have done two things actually.
So we have done this part.
We have done post request generated the ID with this ID again, we have sent a Get user request and
capture the response ID name email compared with the existing data.
Okay, now by using same ID I will try to update the user.
So when I try to update the user, what are the details I will update?
Name.
Email status.
Three things I will update as of now.
If I go back and see the get user again one more time.
So currently these are the details we have.
So what are the details I will update here.
I will update name email status because ID we cannot update because this is a unique.
So what are other things I can update.
Here is name email status I'm going to update name and I'll update email and the status gender.
Also if you want you can update.
So these are the things I can update.
And these are the current details.
Now I want to update it.
So for that I can write another request put request okay.
So let it be here.
And now I'm going to create another request.
So ad request.
And what is this type of request.
This is update user and this is put request.
And what is a URL we have to pass for put request.
Put request.
Also we need to pass ID only.
So next update user details.
So this is the URL we have to pass.
The same user id.
Again we are referring.
So when I send a put request because we are updating the data means what we need to pass request body.
So go to body and uh raw and then JSON.
And here we need to write a body because user ID we are already passing here.
So we no need to pass ID at the time of creating the user.
What is the data we have passed inside the body?
This is the data we passed Now this time also at the time of updating user also I'm passing the same
data ID.
Is not there any way here, right?
Because it is already created here we are passing that also.
So name gender email status.
So these are the four things I can update if you want.
Right.
So what I will do is I will try to update a few things here.
Because if you update everything we cannot recognize easily.
So what I will try to do is I will try to update a few things here.
One is uh, this is update user, so one is name, email and status.
So name email and status name email and status.
So I just try to remove the gender part okay.
Now previously it was it is active or inactive.
Previously it is inactive.
Status is inactive.
Now I want to make it as a active.
Now I want to make it as an active.
Now the name and email address I will update.
So whatever email address username is already there.
Previously here.
So I'm not going to use these two because I want to update now.
Right.
So what you need to do now again we need to go to scripts here.
Go to Pre-request script and create again one more time a new email ID you can create new name, new
email ID you can create once again randomly.
You can create how?
You can create again go back to the create user.
We already done it.
Go to the scripts Pre-request script.
So here we have done same thing copy paste go to Update user and here okay so this will go and create
here a b c x y z.
All right.
So I say 123.
So now the new username will be created.
The new email ID will be created and this user name and email address I am going to pass here.
And where we created these two under Pre-request script.
So before sending this request these two things will be executed.
And whatever the username email is already there previously in those variables will be automatically
updated with the latest script.
Okay now we can say save it.
Okay.
So what we have done so far is simple.
We just send update user request by passing ID as a request URL parameter and name email address status
to generate this new data.
Again, we have put this inside the Pre-request script so that whatever ID name or whatever name email
addresses are there previously that will be replaced with the new email and status and that I am passing
as part of the body.
Okay, now if you want to add validation again, you can add.
So we already scripts we have added how we can add validation.
The user email ID will be updated.
So if I send this.
Now you can see this is the new email ID has got generated.
The new name is got generated status code and with the same ID you can see whatever ID we have passed
here.
So this has got changed.
123 has got changed right.
So username has got changed.
User email is also got changed.
So again if you want to add some validations here you can simply add them.
So on the get user whatever validations we have added under post response.
Same type of validations I can add in the update user also because update user also returning the whole
response and in the post response I can add the same thing, but few things we need to change because
whatever user id we created under variables, we are getting the same user ID and here user id should
be equal and the same username.
And here the username should be same.
And after that, whatever email address we are passing and email address here should be same.
Now save the request.
And again now everything is dependent.
Let me run all the request one after another and closing everything.
Now first to create a user send.
So the new user is created.
So just remember 7613344.
If I look at this this is a these are the username email address all variables.
You can see that ABCXYZ3344.
Here you can see the data whether it's changing or not okay.
Create user.
We have done.
Now go to the get user.
So we have not sent the request still.
So currently these are the variables we have.
So I'm sending the request now.
Perfect.
So test users are passed.
Now you can see 3344, a, b, c, x, y, z and we got some email address and inactive.
It should be active after updating.
Now go back to update user I think inactive active.
You are not checking because we have not created variable for that.
Okay so let me run this now and observe how these variables are going to change here.
Previously a b c x y z some three three, four four will not change email address and user email will
be changed.
Now I'm sending this request.
Now you can see user email has got changed.
User ID is same and email is also changed.
So my test is got passed.
Okay so how about environment section is showing QA.
Are we doing all activities in QA.
So as of now I shifted to QA.
Here you can put whatever environment you want.
And the last class I told you right.
If you want to create a environment variable or environment QA or dev or whatever, so you can select
which one you want.
Because we are not creating any environment variable, even if you selected no environment here, it
will work.
No problem.
So these environments is required only when you create environment variables.
Otherwise we no need to deal with anything with this.
Even if you put no environment, it will still work.
Because we have not created environment variables, we just created collection level variables.
Okay, so by default it is selected.
I have not noticed here, but still even if you select another environment, no problem.
But make sure if you instead of creating collection variables, if you create environment variables
then you need to make sure select the right environment here.
Okay, so far what we have achieved create user we have done and then we have done get user update user.
Now finally what is the request delete user.
Let's do that.
So let me create another request.
So this is delete request.
And what is a URL for deletion.
Update user is done.
Now delete user.
This is a request.
And again user id we have to pass as part of URL.
So this your user id we will get it from the collection variable.
So user ID you will get it from here.
And do we need to pass any body for deleting the request.
No no body is required.
Do we need to add any scripts.
Yes.
So let us remove all the variables because this is the last request right.
Because we in the create user we have created variables for get user we have used this id name and everything
for update user.
Also we have done.
And finally, whenever you are executing the last request, you can unset all the variables because
unnecessarily if you don't remove the variables, the variables still maintain here.
Okay.
Once you completed all the requests, let us try to destroy all the variables.
Why?
We need to maintain unnecessarily.
Right.
So we can remove the variables.
After completion of all the requests, let us clean up them.
So how we can do that?
Where we can do that script, where we can clean up.
Where we can clean up those.
Delete user request under pre request or post response post response.
So here we can clean up all the variables currently.
What are the variables we created.
User name email and user ID.
How we can delete them.
What is the command unset PM dot collection variables.
Collection variables dot unset.
Simply specify the variables.
What are the variables?
User name is one variable.
That's it.
And similarly another one user email.
This is another one.
Next one.
User ID.
Even a user id is also I'm going to delete everything.
I'm just trying to unset.
Now save this request and send this.
After sending this final request, just observe what will happen.
See this?
Everything has got removed.
All collection variables are cleaned up.
Okay.
So again if you go and create a user request, create a user.
Now observe see collection variables three are got created.
Now get user.
Successfully working update user.
And when you update the user user name email address is got changed.
See they have changed.
Perfect.
Now go to delete user.
So when I send delete user, the request will be deleted.
The resource and these three details will be cleared.
When I send this all these got cleared okay.
So this is how we can change the APIs.
That is the main concept.
We have combined all three APIs.
Now every API request is dependent on dependent on previous request.
Previous request okay.
So can we run all these requests in one shot.
Can we run all this request in one shot?
How we can run.
Just we need to run the collection okay.
So let's select the collection now.
So once you select the collection here you can see one option called run run collection.
Simply execute.
So it is saying it is selected for collections.
And simply you Simply can run collection.
That's it.
Okay, so in the delete user we have not added any test.
So it is saying no test found.
But for update user get user we have added the test.
It is passed even the Post request.
Also we have not added any post test.
We have not added any validations there.
We just created a variable which is storing user ID but we haven't added any validation.
So all three, all four requests are successfully executed.
And if you click on this view all runs it will show you a report kind of thing.
So if I expand this it will show you the details.
So schedule performance okay I'll explain these things later.
So functional test.
So far we have done.
Even if you go to the console.
You will see all the requests here.
So what are the requests we have sent?
How much time it is taken?
So everything is shown here.
Okay, so this is all about API chaining process.
So based on that you guys can try this.
Another one I'll give as an assignment.
So I've just given collection variables.
We created Pre-request script.
We had added post response also added.
And finally we have done we have applied chaining based on user ID.
So this is assignment you guys can try.
So we already have a student API right.
So in the last classes we have discussed how to start student API by using JSON server command the local
API.
So you can start that API.
And then two request.
First create a student with this body.
I have given all the instructions very carefully with this body.
Create a new student, and, uh, and the test scripts capture the ID from the response and create a
variable ID variable.
And then as part of second request, send another get request.
So here the first request is a create student.
The second request is a get student.
But here whatever ID which is generated in the previous request by using the same ID we have to capture
the we have to send the second request.
And once we get the response we need to validate the data is exactly same or not.
So whatever data we passed here, the data here is same or not.
We need to validate.
After that delete request with the same id, we have to send the delete student request.
So read all the instructions you will clearly understand.
And you guys can try this as part of assignment today okay.
So I'll stop here tomorrow.
We will continue with the rest of the topics.