Okay, so let us start today's session.
So today we learned two concepts, uh, from postman.
One is variables and another one is scripts.
So again in the scripts we have a different type of scripts.
Uh, like uh, pre-request script and post response scripts and so on.
We will discuss that later.
First, let us start with the variables.
So normally what is the definition of the variable.
What is a variable.
So as per the definition variables are basically containers or a placeholders where we can store some
data or we can store some input in the variable.
Right.
There's a generic definition.
If you learn any programming language.
Normally the common definition of the variable variable is nothing but which can hold some data.
Or we can say it is a kind of a placeholder where we can maintain the data in a variable.
Okay.
So as per postman, also it is a similar definition.
Variables are placeholders for values and where we can use those values in different places, like we
can use those values in the request.
Sometimes we can use those values in the scripts and collections in multiple places.
We can refer those variables.
Okay.
And why we need variables.
So why we need to create a variables.
The most important point.
Most of the times we try to avoid the duplication values.
So for example let's say I have a multiple uh request in my collection.
In every request I want to pass, uh, some data or I want to pass the URL.
Right.
So suppose if you look at one single project, the URL is almost same.
Let's say I have a different type of Get request and post request and different type of request.
And whatever the URLs I'm using in every request, the URL is the same actually.
Right?
So instead of using the URL value directly in every request, I can create some variable URL equal to
so and so.
And this variable I will refer in every request.
Okay.
So what exactly we are achieving with this variable.
We are trying to avoid the duplication.
At the same time suppose tomorrow if you want to change the URL, you can just change in one single
place.
That will automatically reflected in all the request.
So that means what?
We can change this value at any time even it is dynamically changing, right?
And that is the main usage of the variable.
So we can avoid hard coded values.
Initially we can add some value but later we can update this value.
We can modify this value by writing some JavaScript statements.
Okay.
So what is the use of variable to avoid the hard coding values.
And we can reuse the variable values in multiple scripts dynamically.
We can pass the data and it is easy to manage basically.
Right.
So not only the URL.
Sometimes there are some common data which is required for every URL request.
For example, I will have to use API key.
So if you want to access any API, suppose let us say I want to have some API key.
And that API key is a commonly required for every type of request.
In that case, I can create a variable for storing API key, and in which I can hold the key value,
and that I can refer in every request.
So like this.
There are many types of values we can store in a variables.
And those variables we can refer in multiple requests.
So that is a main usage of variables in postman.
So where we can use the variables once you created we can use those variables in the URLs and headers
and request bodies or in any JavaScript statements.
So in multiple places in many ways we can refer the variables okay.
Now in postman there are five different levels we can create like variables we can create in five different
places which we can call them as a variable levels.
We can say variables, types of variables or else.
So five different types of variables we can create.
So first type is a global variable.
Environment variable collection variable local variable and data variable.
These are the five different types of variables we can create.
All right.
So now if I look at the hierarchy in postman where exactly we create a request.
So what is a what is a high level thing.
Is collection right.
So first we will create a collection.
So workspace contains a multiple collection.
Let's say workspace contains a collection one and collection two and collection three.
We can create multiple collections.
Again what is a collection contains.
Collection contains what request right.
Again these request may be part of the folders also.
So every collection is having different type of request.
So this is the hierarchy.
Now when I create a global variable and the global variable accessible Everywhere.
That means everywhere in the sense what?
In every collection we can access, the global variable in every collection means what?
In every collection.
What the collection contains.
Collection contains a different type of request.
So when I create a global variable that is workspace level, that means what?
Inside the workspace, you may have any number of collections and any number of request in every collection.
In every request you can refer that variable which is called global variable.
Another one is environment variable.
So environment variable is almost similar to global variable but slightly difference.
Is there even environment variable also specific to environment like QA or prod.
What does it mean?
Just like a global variable you can also create an environment variable.
Then what is the difference?
The global variable we can access in every collection in every request directly.
Whereas when I create an environment variable.
Also you can use in multiple collections, but you need to switch to that environment.
For example, let's say I created two environments QA and dev.
Under QA, I created some variables in the dev I created some other variables.
Now these variables.
Suppose I want to access the variables which are created under QA environment.
My collection should shift to QA environment and then I can access the variables.
Similarly, if I want to access the dev variables inside the collection two, then I have to switch
to the dev environment.
Then I can access the variables in the collection two.
So that is a major difference.
So global variables we can access in everywhere directly.
There is no switching is required.
But when I create environment variables and before creating environment variables first we need to create
an environment.
Under that environment we can create environment variables.
And if you want to access the environment specific to that environment, we need to switch to that environment,
then we can access the variables.
I will show you practically.
Then you will understand more about it.
So that is the second one.
Environment variable specific to environment.
Like we can create any number of environments in each and every environment.
We can create multiple variables and we can access in every collection.
Third type is collection variable.
As the name says, collection variable means what the variables we can create at the collection level,
and those variables we can access within the collection.
Suppose in the collection one I created some variables I those variables I can access within the collection
in all the request.
So whatever request I have created under collection one, I can access in all the request because the
variables are created under the collection.
So they are called collection variables specific to collection or request local variable.
This is specific to request.
Suppose in the collection one I created request one, request two, request three and request to specifically
create one variable, and that variable I can use only in the request one and specific to request two,
I can create one variable that I can use only within request two and request three, and so on.
That is called local variable.
Local variable or request level variable.
That is a lower very very lowest scale scope.
Like in Java programming we have something called private protected right and public.
So similarly even in the postman variables also different levels.
So lower local variable means only request level collection variable is collection level environment
and global variables are above the collection.
These two variables we can access in everywhere in every collection but global variables we can directly
access but environment variable.
We have to switch to particular environment and then we can access those variables.
So these are the four.
And fifth one is data variable.
And these variables we can define in some external files like CSV file or JSON file.
We will create that file and in which we will create all the variables.
And we will refer those variables inside our postman request or postman request, body or wherever you
want.
You can refer those variables.
And those variables are called data variables.
It's a normal in the Java programming or Python we will use something called properties file.
In the properties file we will put common variables and we can use those variables in all our test cases.
Similarly here the data variables we will specify either in CSV file or in JSON file.
And we will refer those variables inside our postman request.
So they are called data variables.
So which are also called as external variables.
The data variables also called as external variables.
So today we will focus on first to four types of variables.
I will show you how we can create and how we can use.
And tomorrow session I will show you the data variable because this is related to data driven testing.
This is related to data driven testing.
So we will see data variables along with the data driven testing in tomorrow class and today we will
focus on four types of variables.
Global variable environment.
Variable collection variable and local variable.
Okay.
Now let us move on to the practical part.
How we can use those variables one by one.
So global environment collection local and data variable.
So what I will do is I will take one request.
And in the request let's say this is my URL right request and response dot in.
So for example let's go to postman directly and let's go and create a new collection for today I'm creating
new blank collection and I will name it as day four.
And I'll name it as a Variables and scripts.
Or you can say a variables.
Okay, now my collection name is got created day four variables.
Now inside the collection I'm going to create one sample request.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just taking a sample request.
And here we have a sample API.
So I'm going to take one list users API.
And this is the URL I'm going to send.
So this will basically return some data which is there in the database.
This is a Get request.
So I'm using this request URL.
I'm just going to create a simple Get request.
And here I will place the URL.
So this is my URL.
So just a URL you need to place okay.
Now I'll just try to rename it.
I'll name it as a Get request.
Or I can say get.
Users.
Okay so simple.
I created a simple request here and when I send this request you will see some data response.
Right?
So now we'll see how we can use variables and where we can create how we can access all those things
step by step.
So as I said five different type of variables.
First we'll discuss four different variables.
One is global variable environment variable collection variable local variables.
These are the four types of variables.
So for now what I'll do is let us assume this URL is same right in every request.
Maybe the path parameters and query parameters can be changed.
One request to another request.
I'm talking about request URL in the request URL in every request.
This part is same, right?
So this part is same, but path parameters and query parameters may change according to the type of
the request, type of the data or type of the request.
So I will what I will do is I will just capture this URL and I'll store this URL in a variable, and
that variable I will access in every type of request in different levels okay.
So first let us start with the global variable.
How to create a global variable.
What is a global variable means the global variable we can access in every type of collection in everywhere
within the workspace.
Again you cannot access outside of the workspace, only within the workspace anywhere you can access.
So now I'm going to create a global variable.
Just listen very carefully because in postman there are multiple flows are there.
And you have to remember those flows.
Otherwise you cannot practice it okay.
So after the session you can just repeat this video once again so that you can easily see the flows
and you can practice.
Now what I will do is I will just take this URL and I will create a global variable.
So where I can create a global variable.
So to create a global variable you need to go to the settings here.
Can you see here the Settings Postman Settings button and click on the settings here and go to the settings.
And inside the settings uh you can see something here.
Sorry not here.
Because in every uh postman version they keep changing the, uh, UI part.
So if I look at the previous version of postman, the UI is different.
The options are got changed.
Now this is a totally different.
So let me try to find where exactly we can create a global variables.
Okay.
Currently we are in the workspace and we are in collections okay.
This is our collection and currently we are in the collection.
So we need to create our global variable.
Let me find it.
I think.
Yeah.
This is the one guys.
So I can just go to here.
This is iconic and see variable section.
Okay.
So go here and you can here you can see different type of things.
So environment collection global right.
So as of now there are no global variables in this workspace.
So we can add new global variables.
Simply you can click on add here.
And now it will open the window like this.
So here you can create a global variables.
So here I'm going to create one global variable as a URL underscore global.
So just to represent it as a global variable I'm just giving some extension.
So underscore global URL underscore global.
And here initial value uh I can give some default value or initial value.
And the current value is almost same in in future if you are not able to provide the current value somehow,
so the initial value will be automatically taken.
Okay.
Safe side.
You can have initial value.
So this is how we can simply create a variable URL underscore global I created a new variable.
So once you created click on the save button say global.
Now it is done.
So once it is done you can close this.
So now the global variable is got created.
So that I want to refer in the URL.
So how we can refer the global variable here.
Simple.
Remove this URL till here and what you need to do.
Simple.
Open two curly braces.
And here it will show you the list of global variables which we already created.
You can see initial current scope.
You can see the values are given here.
So in the curly braces simple type url url underscore global it will automatically pop up here okay.
So you can just select this.
Or you can just type directly global and then close.
Two curly braces are required.
Okay.
So suppose if you know if you're not created these variables, but still if you are trying to use it
here, it will give you a red color mark error.
It will show you.
So currently we have already created.
So we are just referring the variable.
We are not provided the URL.
So now when I send this request so we'll get the same response.
So from where it is taking this URL from the global variable, it is taking this URL from the global
variable.
Okay.
So again if I go back and saving the request and again if I go back and see global variable section,
do we have the global variable here.
If I click on it here you can see URL underscore global.
Still it is available okay.
So this is the first type of variable.
So global variable we can create.
What is environment variable.
So when I create environment variable first we need to create an environment.
In that environment we can create environment variable.
So how we can create it.
So to create environment variable.
First we need to create an environment.
And then we can create environment variables under the environment.
So as of now it is saying here there is no environment.
Here.
You can see there is no environment.
So we have to create our own environment.
In that environment we can create a variables.
So first let us create our own environment.
So go to this option drop down create environment.
And I think here also there is an option all variables.
So you can see there is an environment.
So here there is no environment selected.
So here we can select the environment.
But here we cannot create environment variable.
Here this option is available for only choosing the environment okay.
Now if you want to create a new environment go to this drop down and click on the create environment.
So once you go here simply give some name of the environment here.
New environment here.
I'm just giving you a environment.
Or you can simply say QA.
So this is the name of the environment.
But under this environment we can create a variables.
Now the URL variable I will create under this environment.
So I'm giving a different name I say URL underscore q underscore env.
So this is the name of the variable I'm giving q a is representing environment.
Env is representing environment.
So q url underscore qa underscore env I'm just giving a similar name.
And here I can provide the the URL.
So this is a URL.
And current value is also same.
So now this is the variable I created under which environment QA environment okay.
Now save this.
Now I want to use this variable inside my request.
So let me close this.
Now here.
Currently I'm pointing to global variable.
Now I want to point environment variables.
And if you want to point this environment variable as of now currently which environment is selected.
Q environment.
Suppose by default you don't you see only no environment.
So now I'm trying to refer that variable.
Environment variable.
Okay.
For example let's say uh URL underscore let I'll keep this global variable directly here.
I don't want to disturb this.
Uh what I can do is I can create another request.
I can take a duplicate one.
Okay.
I can take that here.
There is an option called duplicate.
If I select duplicate, request will be created.
So here I will try to rename it get users a global.
Okay.
Global.
Global variable.
Global var I'm just giving similar name so that you can easily refer.
So here we used global variable.
Now in the second request I'll try to use environment variables so get users underscore.
Environment variable.
Okay.
This is another request I created.
So now instead of referring global variable I'm trying to refer to environment variable.
So if I rename this I can just try to remove this.
And to refer any variable we have to use curly brace like this.
Okay.
Now which type of variable we have to access.
Now we need to access environment variable.
So what is the name we are given.
URL underscore qa underscore env.
So this is the name we have given.
Now you can see it is giving red color error.
It is giving an error.
So why it is giving an error.
Can you guess why it is giving an error.
So we are trying to access the environment variable which is already created.
But still we are trying to get it, but still it is giving an error.
Why?
Because currently in which environment we have.
We have not selected any environment here.
So we created this variable under QA environment.
So what we need to do we need to switch to it.
So here you can see drop down here you can see whatever environment we created earlier.
It will show you simply select this.
So as soon as you select it that error is gone.
So this time the URL comes from where environment variable.
So you can simply click on send button.
Now we got the response.
So this is how we can simply access environment variable.
So before switching before accessing environment variable you need to select the environment properly
here.
Otherwise you cannot access okay.
So this is how we can access environment variable.
So you can create multiple variables under one environment.
So now the next one is collection variable.
And this variable we can create only at the collection level.
Only within the collection we can access.
So what I'll do is I can create a variable in the collection level.
So currently where is our collection day for underscore variable.
So this is my collection.
So I will create a collection variable under the collection simply where we can create here can click
on the.
You can see here there are three dots.
You can see here.
When I click on the three dots you can see more create form view change or not this one.
So you need to go here.
Again click on the variables and you can see collection.
We already created one environment variables and global variable.
Also.
Now we need to create collection variable.
So click on this add.
So just remember the flows guys.
Because most of the times it will be confused because in every version of postman they do some changes
UI changes.
So that is the reason most of the people will have confusion.
So sometimes they could not find the options also.
Right.
So here you can see this variable section go here.
And currently we already created one environment variable.
It will show here and global variable also created.
Now we will create a collection variables.
So no variables are defined in this collection so far.
So I'm just adding here.
Click on add link.
So once you click on Add link it will give you one more window.
So you can see the variables tab.
You can see here go there.
So even if you are not clicking here what you can simply do is select the collection automatically.
It will show you the tab here.
This is the one place directly we can add or else you can go here.
Click on add.
So then it will show you this window okay.
So over you authorization scripts and variables and runs there are multiple sections you can see.
So go to the variable section.
Once you select the collection go to the variable section.
Here I'm going to create.
So this time I'm going to create URL underscore collection level I'm creating.
So I'll just name it as a collect and initial value and then current value.
So as soon as you type initial value, it will copy it into correct current value also.
So this is a collection variable which is created and then simply save it.
Now where I can access this variable under any request in whichever request you want.
In all the request we can access the variable.
So what I will do is I will try to create another duplicate.
And in inside the request I say get user.
So this is collection variable I call it as a collection where.
Okay.
Now.
So currently it is referring environment variable from environment.
So I just try to go to the no environment for now.
So now I want to refer this from the collection variable.
So simply what you can do.
Same curly braces URL underscore.
What is the name you have given.
Collect URL underscore collect.
That's it.
So this is comes from the collection variable now.
So when I send save and then send the request.
So we got the response.
So this variable is created under the collection.
So within the collection you can use this variable in every type of request in all types of requests
within the collection you can access.
But outside of the collection you cannot access.
This is called collection variable.
Now the local variable.
So which is very specific to request.
Very specific to request.
The local variable.
So where we can create it.
So again let's go and create another request.
Let me go and create duplicate I'll rename it as a get users local where.
So where we can create a local variable.
So I'm just saving this request.
So as of now, this URL comes from the collection.
Now I want to create a variable especially for the request.
So then where we can create local variables.
So the local variables we can create under the Pre-request script.
Here we can create by writing the JavaScript.
We can create a local variable okay.
And uh there is another way we can also create somewhere here let me check.
And the local variable is specific to the request not for other type of request.
So if I go back here this is again all variables.
You can see global variable collection variables and other things are there.
So local variable option is not here because local variables are very specific to the request.
So let us try to find Somewhere we can create.
I think there is no way.
So only in the scripts we can create.
So to create a local variable, what we can do is here we need to write a simple JavaScript statement.
So how we can create a simple JavaScript statement is simple I'll tell you.
So PM is a package pm.pm dot.
We are going to create a local variables.
So I say pm dot variables pm dot variables, dot set, dot set.
And here you can create.
So how we can create simply I can say uh what is URL underscore.
I will name it as a URL underscore local URL underscore local comma.
In the second parameter we need to specify the URL.
Semicolon is optional in JavaScript okay.
So PM dot variables dot data set URL underscore local comma, the value of the variable.
So this is how we need to add.
So where we can add this under the scripts tab go to Pre-request script okay.
So on the Pre-request script you can add this okay.
So once you add it now just observe when I send this and how we can refer this in the URL, how we can
refer this simple URL underscore remove this I say local.
That's it.
Okay.
Now whatever the variable we created here, we are referring in the same request.
Now execute this.
It will give you a response okay.
So this is how we can do that.
So there is an option called set here.
These are default options.
Suppose if you are not able to write the script by using this simple snippet you can simply add it.
So for example if you want to set a variable.
So here there is a method available.
Set global variable set collection variable.
And these are all statements for coding I will come to that part.
Okay.
So in the next I will explain that how to create variables through JavaScript.
So in that case we will use this snippets okay.
So so far we have seen how to create a variables in the UI part in the UI options using UI options.
But we can also create a variables by writing a JavaScript.
Just like this.
We created the local variable, right?
Similarly, we can also create global variables, environment variable collection variables, everything.
We can delete the variables, we can get the value from the variables.
All these actions we can do only through JavaScript statements.
So I'll come to that part.
So to create a local variable what we can do we can simply say pm dot variables dot set.
And the key key is nothing but a variable and the value.
So whatever variable name we have given here same thing I'm referring.
So when I save and send it.
It will give you the response.
So these are the four types of variables which we can create global variables, environment variables,
collection variables and local variables.
Remember when you create a local variable where I have created this script under the scripts tab you
can see Pre-request script.
I'll explain what exactly these two.
For now, just remember Pre-request.
Under this I created this local variable script.
Okay, only through JavaScript you can create a local variables.
Done.
So these are the four types of variables global variables environment variables collection variable
local variable.
So data variables.
In the next class I will discuss because these variables also called as external variables which are
come from CSV and JSON files.
We have to define the variables in the external files.
We will get those variables and use it in your request.
Okay, so now let us see how initial value is the same for all types of variables, but in the real
time those initial values.
Suppose.
Suppose you forgot to pass a value in the variable.
So then the default value would take.
An initial value will be taken.
So for the safe side we can have the initial value also for that variable.
So that's the reason in the UI they have given like that.
So initial value is given like this.
Suppose if I just go to the global variable also.
And here it is given.
Right.
So here you can see global variables.
So this is the value.
Finally we have given.
Okay.
You can see that.
So here you can see these are the values which are given.
So we can create initial value or initial value in the sense not only the URL.
So you can pass an initial values not meaning that actually the initial value meaning is a default value.
The default value.
You're considering initial value is the same for all types of variables, but in the real time those
it may be different.
So if the values are different, you don't take the variable okay.
So if the value is same across multiple requests you can create a single variable.
You can store that value in the variable.
So then you can reuse that variable in multiple request.
If the values keeps changing then directly go to the local variable.
Because in the local variable here you set some value here.
And if I create another variable another request.
Then again you can change the value of the variable.
So it keeps changing okay.
And we can also change the values of the variables dynamically.
I'll show you that concept in the chaining process okay.
Suppose there are multiple request.
And one request is getting some response giving some response.
We need to take that response as input and pass it as a input for the another response another request.
So in that case, I will show you more examples on variables how exactly we use variables in the real
time when implementing the chaining process.
But here we are seeing the variables at the individual level.
Individual request level.
So when to go for variable.
When you define the variable.
When you create a variable when it is required.
If you find something is common across multiple request, then create a variable.
Have that value in the variable and then refer the variable in multiple request.
So that is a concept.
If the values keeps changing then don't go with the variable in global.
Yes, global means what it is accessible based on the accessibility.
You need to decide which type of variable is required, either global or environment or local.
So based upon the accessibility.
So variable is same.
But I created in a different levels right.
So you can create whichever level you want depends on the requirement.
Suppose I want to have that variable.
I want access in all the requests.
Then where you will create that variable in which level you will create.
I want to access the variable in all the request related to the specific collection.
Specific collection.
Then go with the collection variable.
I want to create a variable.
I want to access it in all the collections throughout my project.
All the collections then go with global variables.
Right.
Suppose I want to access a variable specific to that request.
I don't want access anywhere else.
Then go with the local variable.
Okay, so depends on your requirement.
You can create the variable in whichever level you want.
Understood everyone.
So these are the four types of variables we can create.
And we can refer inside the request or in the request body.
We can also refer the variables inside the request body.
Also sometimes we send the post request.
The post request we will pass some data.
Right.
So even that data also we can get it from the variables.
I'll show you that part.
Okay.
So global variables, environment variables, collection variables, local variables and even also we
have a data variables which is also called as external variables.
We will get it from the CSV and JSON file.
So using this approach we will use we will do data driven test.
Data driven test is nothing but what the same request we are sending multiple times with a different
sets of data.
So that's called data driven testing that we can achieve using data variables.
I will show you this in the next class.
So now we have seen how to access the variable right.
What is the syntax.
Two curly braces and the variable name.
And another two cases.
It can be any type of variables.
The same syntax we follow any type of variable.
It can be global or environment or local collection whatever type of variable we follow the same syntax.
No double quotation, no single quotations.
Just start with the two curly braces variable name and with the two curly braces.
Okay, so now let us talk about postman scripts.
So far everything is clear.
Everyone.
So what are the types of variables, how to create and how to use it.
So three things we have discussed.
You need to do multiple rounds of practice.
Then you will able to remember the flow.
But in the real in the reality.
We don't do that guys because we don't do through the UI actions.
We will write a JavaScript to create a global variable or environment or collection whatever variables
you want to create, you create it through JavaScript statements in the real time.
I'll show you how we can do that.
It's just for information.
I have shown you through the UI operation because UI operations keeps changing UI elements, so it is
not always constant.
So try to learn how to create the variables only through JavaScript statements.
So I have shown you for the local variable.
And similarly we can create global variables environment variables, all types of variables we can create
through JavaScript statement.
Okay, fine.
So I'll show you how we can do that.
So before doing that, let us try to understand postman scripts.
So there are two kinds of scripts provided in postman.
One is called pre-request scripts.
Second is post response script Pre-request post response.
So what does it mean?
So whenever you send a request, you will get a response.
Whenever you send a request, you will get the response.
Suppose before sending my request.
Before sending my request, if I want to execute some scripts, the scripts in the sense obviously it
is a JavaScript.
Okay, so before sending this request, if you want to create some scripts, if you want to execute
some scripts and those scripts should fall under pre-request scripts.
And those scripts are called as pre-request scripts.
And suppose I want to execute some scripts after getting the response.
So once I request I got, I got the response, and once I get a response, then I want to execute some
other scripts and which are called post response scripts.
Here we will execute post response scripts.
Pre-request scripts.
Post response scripts.
Okay, now you tell me when exactly the variables are required before sending the request.
After getting the response when the variables are required.
When the variables are required before sending the request, or after getting the response before sending
the request, we need to create a variables.
So that is the reason where we created the variable local variables and everything under here.
If I go back and open the request you can see scripts under script.
You can see two types of scripts here pre request and post response under pay request.
Here we can create the variable.
So this area is especially for what creating the variables.
Example okay.
Example is what creating the variables.
So what is a prerequisite?
Scripts Pre-request scripts will be executed before sending the request.
Now after getting the response, after getting the response, we have to add post response scripts here
in the second tab.
Here we will add.
So what are the normal generally?
What are the things we will add in this section?
Post response.
After getting the response, what are all the things we do.
Validations right.
So in the last class I have shown you all validations we have added inside the post response.
So why?
We have added all the validations in this section because after getting the response only we will start
doing validations.
So post response this is responsible for executing after getting the response.
That means what?
Pre-request scripts will be executed before sending the request.
Post response scripts will be executed after getting the response.
These are the two different type of scripts postman is provided.
Okay, now again the Pre-request scripts and post response scripts are available in three levels three
levels collection level, folder level, request level.
See if I go back to the postman again.
If you see here what is the main entity here?
Postman.
And this is a collection inside the collection what is we have request.
Suppose inside the collection can we create a folder?
Folder is nothing.
But what?
Like a sub folder?
Suppose here click on three dots and I'm creating a folder so I can give some folder.
I'll name it as let's say my folder.
Okay, then what happens in the variables collection?
I created a new folder called my folder.
So inside the my folder I can add a request.
So I can click on Add request right.
So inside this add request here I can pass the URL.
So simply I can say URL get request and simply send.
So this is get users.
Now save the request and consent.
So if I look at here what is the hierarchy collection.
Collection can have a folder.
Folder can have a request.
So you can see three different layers collection folder request.
So pre request script and post response scripts can be executed in three levels.
For example look at this diagram.
See let's say this is my request and response.
This is my request and the response.
Now if I look at here Pre-request script, we can add at the request level, folder level and collection
level.
But wherever you have added all these prerequisites will be executed before sending the request.
Okay.
Now after getting the response, we can add post response script again in the collection level, folder
level or request level.
That means what collection folder request.
So Pre-request script and post request post response scripts.
Both are available for request folder and also collection in three levels.
It is available, but in which hierarchy they will execute, in which hierarchy they will execute.
So when I run the request and get the response the same hierarchy it will execute.
So Pre-request script from the collection will execute first, then Pre-request script from the folder
will execute next Pre-request script from the request will execute next.
This is a hierarchy and after getting the response first where it will execute, which post response
will execute at the collection level, post response will execute after that folder level response will
execute after that request level response will execute.
Okay.
So this is the hierarchy.
This is the fourth one, fifth one and sixth one.
So this is the hierarchy okay.
So you no need to maintain two folders.
One folder is enough.
So one folder is enough.
So one collection one folder and one request.
For every level you have a pre-request script and post post response script.
For example, let's say this is my collection.
In this collection we have a folder in the folder.
I have a request.
So before for request level Pre-request script is there for folder level.
Also we have a Pre-request script for collection level.
Also we have a Pre-request script.
Similarly for the request level.
Also we have a post response script for folder level.
Also we have a post response script for collection level.
Also we have a post response script.
So that's what I'm saying.
So single collection, single folder, single request is enough to add these three things.
Okay practically I will show you then you can understand.
So based on this diagram what we need to understand is the hierarchy in which order they will execute.
So all prerequisites will be executed before sending the request.
All the post responses will be executed after getting the response only.
That is same.
But again in these three pre-request scripts, which one will execute first?
Which one second?
Which one is third?
Priority will come right?
Because all three are what Pre-request scripts at three different levels.
We specified the first collection level will execute, then folder level will execute, then request
level will execute.
After execution request will be sent.
Response we will get after that collection level.
Post response will execute.
Then folder level post response will execute and then request level.
Post response will execute.
So this is the exact order.
Now I'll show you practically and we will see the order.
So as I said one collection, one folder, one request is enough to demonstrate all these things.
So let's go to the postman and show you how we can create all those things.
Listen carefully.
So currently I have day four variables.
What is this?
This is a collection now folder.
This is my folder inside the folder.
How many requests I have inside my folder.
How many requests?
I have only one request, which is Get users.
Okay.
Remember this.
All right.
So now what I'll do is request or I think this URL is not correct.
Let me correct this URL.
Okay.
So this is a right URL.
Perfect.
So now let us create scripts in the different levels as we understood before.
So I will create a Pre-request scripts for collection level folder level.
And as I said for collection we have a prerequisite to script and post response script for folder.
Also we have a pre-request script and post response script even for request.
Also we have a pre-request script.
Post response script I'll show you here, you can understand.
So first let us go to collection.
Okay.
If you go to collection now you can see the scripts.
So you can see the two tabs.
Here you can specify the Pre-request script.
Here you can specify the post response script.
Okay, this is the place.
Suppose if you go to folder level in the folder level.
Also you can see the scripts here.
Go to the scripts.
You can see Pre-request script.
Here you can specify post response script.
You can specify the folder level.
Now go to the request level.
In the request level where it is.
Here it is.
Go to the scripts here Pre-request script.
Post response script okay.
So now let us go and create step by step.
So I'm going to collection level go to scripts and here Pre-request script.
So normally we use it for creating the variables and creating the variables and everything.
But I'm just trying to print something.
So to print some text in JavaScript we use some method called console dot log.
Console dot log is like a print statement and where you can see the print outputs and everything in
the console window here you can see at the bottom.
Postman is having one console here.
When I open this console you can see console window.
This is a console window of the postman.
Here you can see outputs and everything.
And I can clear this for now I'll show you that.
So console dot log is what in JavaScript console dot log is a method through which we can print something.
Okay.
So what I'll do is I will create a method one simple statement console dot log and what I can include
in this Pre-request I'm just writing simple things so pre-request script at and which level we are creating
this collection level.
So Pre-request script at collection level.
Pre-request script at collection level.
Now I'm saving it and again go to the post response here.
Also I'm writing what is this?
This is a post.
Post response script at collection level and again save.
Okay.
Now we created Pre-request script post response scripts both at the collection level.
Okay.
Now come to the folder level again.
Go to the scripts.
Go to pre-request.
So here again what it is Pre-request is set in which level?
Folder level.
Folder level.
Save it.
Now again go to post response.
Here this is post response.
Post response script at again folder level.
Folder level I'm just writing something.
Save it.
So now we created Pre-request script and post response script both in the folder level.
Now go to the request level.
Now go to the script under Pre-request I'm writing.
So this is Pre-request script data request level.
Save it.
Now go to post response and this is post.
Post response script at request level.
Done.
So now I have just printed some messages so that I want to show you the workflow, the hierarchy, the
order of execution.
Okay.
As as shown in the picture.
So this is the exact order of execution.
So before sending the request first these three will be executed.
After getting the response, another three post responses will be executed again.
In these three first collection level will execute, then folder level.
Then request level will execute.
After the getting the response again, post response from the collection will execute first, then folder
and then request.
So this is the hierarchy.
Now if I go back to the collection level We added Pre-request to script, post request script and folder
level.
Also pre-request script and post response script.
Even the request level we have added Pre-request script and the post response script.
Everything is perfect.
So now we want to execute.
So we want to execute which one we have to execute request folder or collection.
So we have to execute collection not the request.
Why?
Because if I execute only request, only the pre-request post response will be executed only from the
request.
The folder level will not be considered okay.
Similarly, if execute folder, the folder level request level will be considered.
It will ignore the collection level.
So if you want to consider all the levels, all three levels, we need to run the collection.
Not the folder, not the request.
Okay, now let's go to the collection.
How to run the collection directly.
You may have multiple requests in the collection, so if you run the collection, what will happen?
All the requests which are created inside the collection will be executed.
So to run the collection is very simple.
Select the collection.
Here you can have an option called.
They have changed so many things guys.
So earlier the options are different.
So you can see run collection option is there.
So you can use this option run collection.
When I click on this just observe what will happen.
See it is giving everything whatever is there in the collection.
You can see this is the folder we have and these are different requests also created which are there
in the same collection.
So what are the requests we want to execute.
We don't need to execute these things for now and just uncheck I want to execute only this one.
If I expand this you can see okay, this is a Get request which is a part of the folder only this part
I want to execute.
So select this and simply click on Run day four variables.
Click on it.
This is the name of the collection.
Actually Click on it.
Now it is successfully executed.
It is successfully executed.
So if you click on View Summary, it will show you, uh, one is got executed, one is got passed,
and you can see iterations, duration and everything.
View results.
It will show you the results itself.
I click on it.
It will show you the response headers request and everything you can see here.
Okay.
Now let us go back to the console here because we have written some statements in every prerequisite
script and post response.
Right.
So you want to see that.
Now go to the console.
Now just observe this is very very important part.
So remember this hierarchy collection folder request here also collection folder request.
Okay.
Now go back to the console.
So this is our console.
Can you see the screen.
Yeah.
Now where is our request went here.
Get request here.
This is our request right?
So this is our request.
This is a Get request.
This is a URL we send.
So before sending this URL these three statements are printed.
You can see Pre-request script at the collection level is executed Pre-request script folder level is
got executed Pre-request script at request level is got executed.
Perfect, right?
So before sending the request, all three Pre-request scripts are executed.
Then request is sent.
After that three post responses got executed.
Now again if you look at these three, which one executed first collection level, folder level, request
level and after getting the response again collection level, folder level and request level is got
executed.
So if you compare this with our example, it is exactly same collection folder request after getting
the response also collection folder request.
So same hierarchy.
Collection folder request.
Collection folder request.
Okay, so just to understanding the hierarchy or order I printed simple messages actually okay.
So this is called postman console.
What is console mean.
Whatever request you are sending, whatever response you got everything will be shown in this console
window.
You can clear this if you want.
You can simply clear this.
Uh, this is like a test.
Testing is not like testing assertions.
Okay?
Don't think like that.
Don't compare.
It is not testing assertions.
Assertions is nothing but a validation points basically.
Okay.
And where we will include that validation points where we have included validation points in the post
response.
In the post response we have to add the validations.
In the last class we have seen that okay now.
So we have just understood the postman scripts.
So how many types of scripts?
We have a pre-request scripts.
Post response scripts.
These are the two kinds of scripts are there.
And also if you specify the post pre-request script in multiple levels, how they are got executed,
in which order they have executed, we have seen that.
Okay, so now let us see how we can create the different type of variables using JavaScript.
Using JavaScript you can create anywhere.
Okay, so normally where we will create the variables, where we will create pre-request script or post
response script in these two scripts where we will create variables in which place we create a variables
Pre-request script.
Remember this.
This is most important interview question also where you will create a variables under Pre-request scripts.
It can be request level or it can be collection level or folder level.
Pre-request scripts variable will be created under Pre-request script and where you will create assertions
or validations where you will create validations under post responses scripts.
Okay, remember.
And what is the reason why we will create a variables only in the pre-request scripts?
Because the variables should be created before sending the request and why?
We will create validations under post response scripts because validation should be done after getting
the response.
Okay.
So remember very very important Pre-request script and post response scripts.
Now by using this pre-request scripts, we can create the variables in different levels like we can
create a global variables environment, variable collection variables, local variables, data variables,
data variables, we cannot we.
This will come from the external sources and these four types of variables we can create using JavaScript
that we can include inside the pre-request scripts.
And not only creating the variables, we can change the values of the variables.
We can retrieve the data from the variables.
And if you don't want the variables, you can delete the variables also.
So all these operations you can do.
For example, in the postman I created some local variable here.
And if you want to delete this, suppose I just written some script here which will which is created
a local variable.
And if you want to delete this I can also write another method called unset.
See here you can write unset.
There is a method.
So this method will remove the variable will remove the variable.
But when to write this script where to write.
Write the script.
Creation of the variable is created under Pre-request.
But if you want to delete the variable where you will delete it here or somewhere else.
Deletion of the variables and retrieve the data from the variables where you will do those operations
under post response.
Because as soon as you created the variable which is required for request.
Request needed after the getting the response, you can delete the variable after getting the response
Pre-request script won't execute.
What will execute them?
Post request response will execute, so the deletion of the variables should be done inside the post
response.
Okay, so these things we can do using JavaScript.
Now I'll show you how to create different type of variables using Pre-request scripts.
And also I will show you how we can capture the data from the variables using post response script.
How can delete the.
How can we delete the variables using post response scripts?
We will see all these operations one by one.
Listen this very carefully.
I will provide the notes later.
All right.
So I will close everything.
Are you guys following me.
So this is very simple concept.
You need to do multiple rounds of practice okay.
So what I will do is let's go back to the get users.
And I'm taking this request okay.
Get users request in this what I will do is I want to create local variable global variable environment
variable.
And what else collection variable.
So four types of variables we have right.
So how to create those variables.
So to create a different type of variables we can write a different type of a methods.
So let me create a global variable and all types of variables we can directly create here under Pre-request.
Here you can create.
So now I'm going to create a global variable.
So slash slash is representing a comment.
Okay.
So now how to create a global variable.
From the request I'm going to create.
So simple we have a command called PM dot.
And what type of variable you want to create.
Global variable you need to create.
So you can select a globals dot set is a command.
It will set the variable pm dot global dot set.
And we need to pass two parameters key and value.
So what is a variable you want to set.
And this time I want to create a variable for storing the page number.
You can see page equal to two okay.
So let us say page number I say I'll name it as a page number or else you can put another one.
So let's say order number page number whatever you want okay.
User ID better use user ID.
So user id I'm using.
Okay.
So global variable I'm creating.
So I'll name it as a user ID underscore global sorry user ID underscore.
Global.
Now this is the variable name.
Now we need to pass the value.
Also in the double quotations I'll put the value.
Semicolon is optional in JavaScript even if you don't put semicolon no problem.
So this particular statement will create global variable pm dot globals dot set user id underscore global.
This is the name of the variable and two is a value.
Previously how many global variables we created.
Previously we already created a variable.
How many global variables we created.
We already created one global variable.
You guys remember in the same collection, if you go back and see here how many global variables are
there?
URL underscore global.
There is only one variable.
Earlier we created this right.
Now observe I put this statement under Pre-request script I'm sending.
And I created this variable right now.
Why can I use this variable here as part of the request.
Yes.
So how we can use it.
Take this variable name and remove the two curly braces, double curly braces and specify the variable
name.
So this is how we need to replace okay.
So this variable I'm referring here user ID underscore global.
So earlier we haven't created this variable we are newly creating here.
But when this variable will be created at the runtime it will create as soon as we have written the
statement immediately it won't create when I send this request, when I send this request and the runtime
it will create.
And then substitute this variable here because Pre-request script will execute before sending the request.
So once you click on the send button here the script will execute and variable will be created and substituted
here.
Just observe I'm saving the request and sending the response.
Sending the request.
Now observe it is got.
It is written the page.
Which page it is written to is is returning.
Suppose I say three.
Here, send.
Now you can see.
Third page is got written.
Again I'm making as a two.
So this way we can keep changing the values of the variables and again save and send.
Now again this time page number two is written.
But will it store under global variable section.
Previously we created a global variables which is stored somewhere we are able to visible.
We are able to see that global variable.
But this time we have created this variable through script.
Let us see.
Go back here.
Icon.
Previously how many global variables we have URL only but this time it is created user id underscore
global.
The value is two.
Perfect.
So the first one is got created manually through UI option.
Now second variable is got created through script.
So this is how we can create a global variable.
Okay.
So now how to create environment variable.
Environment variables.
How to create environment variable.
Same thing to create environment variable again PM dot.
Yeah.
So which one we need to take now.
Environment dot set.
Very easy to remember.
Okay.
The methods are not complex.
Very simple.
It will automatically gives you pop ups.
So PM dot environment dot set here.
Key and value pair same.
So again I'm creating user ID underscore environment variable I'm creating user ID underscore in each
in each environment I'm say QA underscore environment.
So this is the variable name.
This is the variable name.
And what is the value.
Again I'm giving two.
Now tell me in which environment this variable will be created.
Because we have not specified any environment right.
We have not specified any environment which environment we created.
This is just a variable name.
You can give any name here x, y, z is also good, but where it will create by default this will create
under default no environment we selected here.
So if you select a QA here then this variable will be created by default under Q environment.
Otherwise no.
Remember this guys.
Okay.
Before creating this environment variable make sure which environment you have shifted here.
So QA have shifted.
So this variable will be created under QA environment.
So previously how many variables we created under QA environment.
Okay.
Go back and see.
Under environment there is only one variable has got created.
Close this.
Now after executing of this code it will create another variable.
So how we can use this inside our URL.
Here I'll just try to replace this.
And just try to replace.
So now this comes from the environment variables.
Now save and execute.
Perfect.
It has got executed.
Now let's go back and see.
Environment variable has got created or not perfect.
Now you can see user ID underscore underscore env.
NB so another variable is God created environment variables.
Also we can create using JavaScript.
Okay, so what is the next global we created environment variable.
We created.
What is the next collection variable.
Collection variable.
How to create a collection variable.
Same PM dot collection variables dot set again.
Key value pair.
So how to provide user id underscore collect I'm just giving some name called collect because a collection
variable comma the value.
So this is collection variable.
So where it will create under the collection.
Under the collection only we can use this.
Now how to refer this variable in the URL.
Copy this and simply replace here.
Replace Okay, now the collection variable will be created and that will be substituted here.
Now previously how many collection variables we have.
I go back and see.
Can you see?
Collection variables here.
Yes.
Only one variable we have under collections.
Now after execution of this it will go and create another variable.
Now let me save and then send.
Yeah.
Now it has got created.
And go back and see again one more time.
See under collection also we have a two variables are got created.
Okay.
Perfect.
Now we created global variable.
We created environment variable.
We created a collection variable.
And what is the next one.
The last one.
Local variable.
Local variable.
Okay.
So how to create a local variable.
We already seen that.
So PM Dot variables dot set again key value pair.
So user id underscore local and the value we need to put double quotes.
So this script will create a local variable.
So how we can refer the variable in the URL.
Or do we have to choose environment when we create the for example collection variables uh collection
variables and other variables environment is not required okay.
So only when you create a variables in the specific environment, then you choose the environment here
for other variables for global or collection variable.
Local variable environment is not needed.
Only when you're creating the environment variable.
Make sure you have chosen the right environment here.
Then this variable will go and create under this particular environment okay.
All right.
So now how we can replace this variable in the URL.
So user ID underscore local here.
I can replace this.
Okay, now this variable is referring the local variable.
So earlier we don't create any variable local variable especially for this request.
Do you have any variable created.
If you create here it should be here itself.
It's not there right.
So this is a local variable.
Let me go and execute save and then execute send.
So local variables we can create only through script.
So it is got executed successfully.
So this time it is taken user ID from the local variables.
So we created a global variables environment variables collection variables and local variables okay
clear so far everyone.
So these four things how to create a global variable environment.
Variable collection.
Local variable four types of variables through JavaScript not through UI.
Earlier we have seen through UI how to create.
But now I'm showing you through scripts.
Even though if you are creating through scripts you can see those variables under here.
Environment.
Variables.
Collections.
Global variables.
Everything you can see here.
Okay.
Suppose you do not know this script.
For example you don't know PM dot variables.
You are not learning this.
So by default snippets are there.
So by using the snippets also you can insert this.
So these things you can create at the request level better to create in the request level okay.
Better to create in the request level.
Always preferable in the request level.
So why.
Because why you are creating only from the request level.
You can create in any level, even the folder level.
Also you can create.
But what is the problem?
Suppose in the folder level can you create a local variable collection variable?
Sorry, the folder level.
Can you create a local variable?
No because local variable is specific to request.
So this variable you cannot create on the folder level.
Remember that.
So collection variables can be created under the collection only.
But environment variables global variables we cannot create.
So that's the reason.
Better to create everything in the request level because request is a child of everything.
So if you create everything in the request level up will be automatically created in other parents folder
or collection or environment or global in all the levels it will be created.
Okay, fine.
So suppose if you don't know this script JavaScript so you can use snippets.
So if I just click on this button here arrow mark you will see so many script here.
So you can say set a global variable set collection variable.
There are multiple options are there.
For example I want to create another global variable.
Simply what you can take here set global variable.
Click on this link automatically you will get the snippet.
So here just add the key and the value.
So this will create a global variable.
Similarly if you want to create a collection variable simple get a collection variable.
Click on this.
So this will create a collection variable.
Sorry this is a get method.
And we need to use set method for creation.
Get method for retrieving the value from the variables so that we will do as part of post response okay.
Or here we use only set method.
So if you want to create collection variable.
So then which method we have to use here.
If you are not able to see here you can search for it.
Okay.
So here you can see there are so many snippets.
Are there set collection variable.
Click on it.
Here you can create a collection variable.
Similarly set a global variable.
Set the environment variable okay.
Similarly set variable is for local variable creation.
So by using snippets we can also add pre-request scripts.
Here you can create a variables.
So one important thing you notice even though we created the scripts here, even though we created variables
using JavaScript, it is automatically reflected here.
So in the variable section you will able to see that all the variables are reflected here okay.
Now after creation of all the variables, as soon as I created those variables in the pre-request,
I'm using those variables as part of the request URL.
Here I'm referring.
But after sending the request, do you really need these variables?
Do you need to keep the variables?
No need.
Right.
So after the sending the request I don't need these variables.
So I want to create this variables at the dynamically means what.
Before sending the request I will create.
After getting the response, I will delete them because I don't need to store somewhere else unnecessarily.
So how we can remove the variables.
After sending the response.
So where we can do that inside the post response.
Okay.
Pre-request.
Here we created four types of variables.
Now we want to delete them.
So how we can do that under post response here you can do that.
So how we can do that here.
Unset.
The method is called unset.
Same thing.
Again how we can delete the global variable.
And before deleting I just want to print the value in my console window.
So inside the console here I just want to print I want to get the value from the variable.
And after that I want to delete it.
So how to get the value and how to delete the value.
For example let's say global variable I created.
Right.
So I want to get the value from the global variable.
Then I want to delete it.
So to get the value we have a method called pm dot global variables I want to get.
So use globals dot get.
Get is a method and here simply provide the key.
You don't need to provide the value.
What is the key.
We created user ID underscore global right.
This is a global variable we created.
So what this will return actually.
This will return the value of user ID underscore global.
Have you created that variable earlier under Pre-request.
Yes.
Here it is.
Got created same variable I'm referring here.
But this will get the value.
But you want to print that in my console here.
So print that to print that value we will additionally use console dot log.
Console dot log of put everything in the console dot log okay.
Because the get method will return the value of the key value of the variable.
But still, if you want to print that in the console box, you have to use console dot log and after
printing that I want to delete it or okay.
So after printing that I want to delete it.
So how we can delete simple PM or.pm dot unset.
So which variable we are going to delete global variable.
Right.
So I say global dot unset simply provide the key.
So whatever the variable you want to delete simply provide it.
That's it.
So now what will happen.
So this will get the value from the variable and print in the console.
And this will go and delete it.
So after deleting the variable can we see here.
So currently how many global variables we have two variables user ID global is already there.
Now after execution of this statement can we see here user ID underscore global.
No.
Let's go and see that I'm saving this.
Sending this.
Just observe.
It is automatically printed, the value also in the console.
And if you look at here under globals, the variable is got deleted.
The variable is got deleted.
Similarly, I will try to print the value of collection variable.
Print the value of environment variable.
After that I will delete those variables also.
So we will try to repeat the same thing for collection variables.
Environment variables.
Environment variables and also collection variables.
Also local variables also called as a request variables.
So how we can do this for same environment variable same thing.
Console dot log pm dot environment dot.
Get the variable variable variable name.
And again if you want to delete PM dot environment dot unset instead of set method, we use unset method.
That is the only difference.
Nothing else.
But in the set method we also pass the value, whereas in sunset method we don't pass the value.
This is for deleting the environment variable and then this will automatically delete from here.
And after that how to delete the collection variable to delete the collection variable.
Again same process.
First I'm printing the collection variable pm dot collection variable dot get user id underscore collect.
And then this is going to delete the collection variables.
And after that how to delete the local variables.
So the variables local variables.
Also we can delete.
So this is how we can just I'm printing the variable value first.
And then I'm deleting because we are deleting these variables after getting the response.
So that will not impact anything on the response.
Okay.
So before sending the response we are creating all the variables.
After getting the response we are deleting all the variables.
So when I delete here, even that is reflected in this window.
Also currently we have one environment variable here that is going to delete collection variable.
Also going to delete.
So here global variable we already deleted.
So save it and then send this.
Now you can observe.
It is every time I'm printing the value.
Also.
After that you can see all the variables.
Whatever we created environment variable collection global variables all got deleted okay.
So by writing postman scripts, by writing postman scripts we can create a variables.
We can get the values of the variables.
Also we can delete the variables.
Understood.
Everyone so far is clear.
So how to work with the variables.
Very important concept.
In the coming sessions we will use this again.
There are multiple concepts are depending on this concept.
If you understand this then only you can understand the further sessions.
Okay.
So what we have seen so far how to create a variables through UI.
Also we have seen how to create a variables through JavaScript statements.
So I have given all the examples in the notes.
Later you guys can refer these notes.
How to create a variables.
How to remove the variables.
How to get the values from the variables.
Everything I have given okay.
Now so far whatever variables we created.
So where we have used those variables as part of the request URL, right.
Maybe the URL also we used as part of the request URL.
Even the user id is also part of the URL.
But can we use variables as part of request body?
Sometimes when you send post request, you need to provide the body also in the body, whatever data
I am passing and that data I can get it from the variables right.
So now let me show you another example how we can, uh, how we can pass variables inside the request
body.
So for that I'm going to create a new request here under the same folder.
You can create a new wherever you want.
But I'm just adding another request.
And this is my post request.
So for the post request I will try to use another URL.
Okay, this is the request URL I'm going to use and along with the request body.
So this is the actual post request URL.
So whenever you send some request post request you need to send body also.
Right.
So go to the body and go to the raw and JSON format.
So what exactly we need to pass actually here if I go back and see the documentation I'm sending the
post request create request.
So this is the body we have to send.
So this is the body actually.
So name and the job.
Suppose I say name is x y z.
Okay so job is a manager I'm passing this data directly.
So when I send this request save and send this request then what happens.
It is created a new record and it is responded with ID and creation time.
Right.
So now what I will do is I will try to I can say get user and here create user.
I'm just giving a different name.
Create user okay.
So when I send this request what happens.
It is created a new record with the same name and job.
Now I will create this data through variables.
I will get this data from the variables.
So where we will create a variables.
Now for this request where we have to create a variables under scripts where you will create under Pre-request
or post response Pre-request.
Okay, go to pre-request.
And here we need to create a script.
Right.
So how to create a local variable local variable pm or.pm dot.
Variables dot set okay.
So what is a key name.
So name comma what is the value I'm giving my name here.
This is a one variable it will create.
And similarly I will create another variable I say my name okay.
My name is a name of the variable and my job.
And I say I'll give some other name here trainer okay.
So now I have created how many variables two variables I created.
So when I send this request.
It is giving same name and job.
Why?
Because we have just created variables but in the body we have not used that variable.
Still we are passing same name and job.
Okay, so now what we need to do whatever scripts we have created, whatever variables we created,
the variables we have to refer inside the body okay.
Now just try to remove this value.
And what is the variable name we have here.
Also double curly braces.
So what is the name we have given for the name.
My name that variable name you have to specify.
That's it okay.
Similarly the manager.
So here my job variable name.
So here you can say in the curly braces say my job.
That's it okay.
So this is how we need to everything.
You have to put in the double quotations guys okay.
Remember this.
So this is how we can pass the variables data in the response request body also.
So not only this URL we can also pass the variables data inside the request body okay.
So now save and then send it.
You can see this time the data is got created whatever data we created in the variables same data with
the same data output is got created.
Okay clear everyone so far.
So how to create a variables.
Now I want to do some validation on this guys I want to check the name is correctly given job is correctly
printing here or not.
I want to verify that.
So where I can add the validations now under the scripts post response okay, so before adding validations
I just want to delete these variables.
I want to delete these variables.
After that I will add some validations.
So go to post response and instead of set what is the method unset.
And when I say unset you need to pass the value just pass only key.
Similarly PM dot variables and set my job.
So after execution of my response I don't need variables, I'm just deleting it.
Now I want to add validations.
So how we can verify the validation.
I can verify the response code.
I can verify the time and I can verify the body.
So we already seen all these things right.
So what about null values or numbers.
Also do we need to give a double quotes.
Everything should be in the double quotes.
Everything should be in the double quotes in the body.
Everything.
The parameter.
Wherever you're passing the variable that should be put inside the curly braces, double curly braces,
and also in the double quotations.
Okay, fine.
So now another thing.
So go to the script.
I want to add some validation here.
After deleting the variables I want to add some validation.
How can I add validations?
So we already seen in the day three right.
And the post request create a new student under the scripts.
So status code validation we can do.
And these two validations we can do for now.
So let me go back here.
And just adding this status code is 201 or not I'm verifying and the status message created or not.
Also I'm verifying can we verify the body also body content.
So to verify the content what we can do we need to write a JSON path.
We need to capture the response in the JSON variable.
And after that we can do the verification.
So how to get the response in the JSON variable in the last class we have seen.
So first we need to capture the response in the JSON variable.
We need to create a constant variable not schema.
Schema is different okay.
So we need to capture the the whole response into this variable.
Now from this variable we need to extract the name and compare with our expected name.
Right.
So how we can do that.
We need to write our own method.
So data type not data type validation.
We need to validate the data.
We need to validate the data.
So this is the method we have used earlier to validate the data.
So look at this.
So values of the field.
So currently you can validate ID time randomly generating.
So we cannot validate them.
I can validate name and job.
So how can we validate PM dot expect from the JSON data what you need to extract name.
So name should be what.
So this is the name expert.
And also I'm expecting what job.
Job should be.
What trainer now.
Okay, so like this we can do the data validation.
Perfect.
So I think I have added required validation.
So status code we are validating.
Create a status message I am validating.
And after that body also we are validating.
So let me save it and then send this.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Now we can see.
Go to the test results.
All three are got passed.
And if I look at the console window we can see everything here actually.
So let me clear this and send request once again.
Now we can see this actual post request we have sent.
There are two statements.
We have created the prerequisite.
And these two got executed because these two are got created in the previous request right under get
users.
So they are also executed.
Understood.
Now you got some idea how we can put Pre-request script Where we will have to use where we have to use
post responsive scripts, especially for creating the variables.
We use Pre-request script to do validations.
We do post responsive scripts.
Okay, so I given everything in the notes.
Just go through this document each and everything I have given and do 1 or 2 rounds of practice.
So then you will understand better this.
So you need lot of practice guys because this is not the coding actually very simple coding JavaScript
1 or 2 statements.
You can easily do that right.
It's not a big thing actually.
You can easily do that.
But you need to do multiple round of practice.
Otherwise you cannot remember the flows and everything because this is a UI tool completely UI.
Okay, so that's all for today's session.
In the next class, I'll show you how we can use this data variables and how we can achieve the data
driven testing using this data variables.
Okay, so that's all for today's session.
I'll stop here.
We will continue in the next class.